Influential members of the House Ways and Means Committee introduced legislation that would restrict how the new savings-and-loan bailout agency can raise capital , creating another potential obstacle to the government 's sale of sick thrifts . 
The bill , whose backers include Chairman Dan Rostenkowski ( D. , Ill. ) , would prevent the Resolution Trust Corp. from raising temporary working capital by having an RTC-owned bank or thrift issue debt that would n't be counted on the federal budget . 
The bill intends to restrict the RTC to Treasury borrowings only , unless the agency receives specific congressional authorization . 
`` Such agency ` self-help ' borrowing is unauthorized and expensive , far more expensive than direct Treasury borrowing , '' said Rep. Fortney Stark ( D. , Calif. ) , the bill 's chief sponsor . 
The complex financing plan in the S&L bailout law includes raising $ 30 billion from debt issued by the newly created RTC . 
This financing system was created in the new law in order to keep the bailout spending from swelling the budget deficit . 
Another $ 20 billion would be raised through Treasury bonds , which pay lower interest rates . 
But the RTC also requires `` working '' capital to maintain the bad assets of thrifts that are sold , until the assets can be sold separately . 
That debt would be paid off as the assets are sold , leaving the total spending for the bailout at $ 50 billion , or $ 166 billion including interest over 10 years . 
`` It 's a problem that clearly has to be resolved , '' said David Cooke , executive director of the RTC . 
The agency has already spent roughly $ 19 billion selling 34 insolvent S&Ls , and it is likely to sell or merge 600 by the time the bailout concludes . 
Absent other working capital , he said , the RTC would be forced to delay other thrift resolutions until cash could be raised by selling the bad assets . 
`` We would have to wait until we have collected on those assets before we can move forward , '' he said . 
The complicated language in the huge new law has muddied the fight . 
The law does allow the RTC to borrow from the Treasury up to $ 5 billion at any time . 
Moreover , it says the RTC 's total obligations may not exceed $ 50 billion , but that figure is derived after including notes and other debt , and subtracting from it the market value of the assets the RTC holds . 
But Congress did n't anticipate or intend more public debt , say opponents of the RTC 's working-capital plan , and Rep. Charles Schumer ( D. , N.Y . ) said the RTC Oversight Board has been remiss in not keeping Congress informed . 
`` That secrecy leads to a proposal like the one from Ways and Means , which seems to me sort of draconian , '' he said . 
`` The RTC is going to have to pay a price of prior consultation on the Hill if they want that kind of flexibility . '' 
The Ways and Means Committee will hold a hearing on the bill next Tuesday . 
We 're about to see if advertising works . 
Hard on the heels of Friday 's 190-point stock-market plunge and the uncertainty that 's followed , a few big brokerage firms are rolling out new ads trumpeting a familiar message : Keep on investing , the market 's just fine . 
Their mission is to keep clients from fleeing the market , as individual investors did in droves after the crash in October 
Just days after the 1987 crash , major brokerage firms rushed out ads to calm investors . 
This time around , they 're moving even faster . 
PaineWebber Inc. filmed a new television commercial at 4 p.m. EDT yesterday and had it on the air by last night . 
Fidelity Investments placed new ads in newspapers yesterday , and wrote another new ad appearing today . 
Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc. by yesterday afternoon had already written new TV ads . 
It considered running them during tomorrow night 's World Series broadcast but decided not to when the market recovered yesterday . 
Other brokerage firms , including Merrill Lynch & Co. , were plotting out potential new ad strategies . 
The brokerage firms learned a lesson the last time around , when frightened investors flooded the phone lines and fled the market in a panic . 
This time , the firms were ready . 
Fidelity , for example , prepared ads several months ago in case of a market plunge . 
When the market went into its free fall Friday afternoon , the investment firm ordered full pages in the Monday editions of half a dozen newspapers . 
The ads touted Fidelity 's automated 800-number beneath the huge headline , `` Fidelity Is Ready For Your Call . '' 
A Fidelity spokesman says the 800-line , which already was operating but which many clients did n't know about , received about double the usual volume of calls over the weekend . 
`` A lot of investor confidence comes from the fact that they can speak to us , '' he says . 
`` To maintain that dialogue is absolutely crucial . 
It would have been too late to think about on Friday . 
We had to think about it ahead of time . '' 
Today 's Fidelity ad goes a step further , encouraging investors to stay in the market or even to plunge in with Fidelity . 
Underneath the headline `` Diversification , '' it counsels , `` Based on the events of the past week , all investors need to know their portfolios are balanced to help protect them against the market 's volatility . '' 
It goes on to plug a few diversified Fidelity funds by name . 
PaineWebber also was able to gear up quickly thanks to the 1987 crash . 
In the aftermath of the 1987 debacle , the brokerage firm began taping commercials in-house , ultimately getting its timing down fast enough to tape a commercial after the market closed and rush it on the air that night . 
It also negotiated an arrangement with Cable News Network under which CNN would agree to air its last-minute creations . 
The new PaineWebber commercial , created with ad agency Saatchi & Saatchi Co. , features Mary Farrell , one of the firm 's most visible investment strategists , sounding particularly bullish . 
Taped just as the market closed yesterday , it offers Ms. Farrell advising , `` We view the market here as going through a relatively normal cycle ... . 
We continue to feel that the stock market is still the place to be for long-term appreciation . '' 
The spot was scheduled to appear three times on CNN last night . 
PaineWebber considered an even harder sell , recommending specific stocks . 
Instead , it settled on just urging the clients who are its lifeline to keep that money in the market . 
`` We 're saying the worst thing that anyone can do is to see the market go down and dump everything , which just drives the prices down further , '' says John Lampe , PaineWebber 's director of advertising . 
`` If you owned it and liked it Friday , the true value has n't changed . '' 
He adds , `` This is n't 1987 revisited . '' 
With the market fluctuating and then closing up more than 88 points yesterday , investment firms had to constantly revise their approach . 
At Shearson Lehman , executives created potential new commercials Friday night and throughout the weekend , then had to regroup yesterday afternoon . 
The plan had been to make one of Shearson 's easy-to-film , black-and-white `` Where We Stand '' commercials , which have been running occasionally in response to news events since 1985 . 
The ad would have run during the World Series tomorrow , replacing the debut commercial of Shearson 's new ad campaign , `` Leadership by Example . '' 
But in a meeting after the market closed yesterday , Shearson executives decided not to go ahead with the stock-market ad . 
`` We do n't think at this point anything needs to be said . 
The market seems to be straightening out ; we 're taking a wait-and-see attitude , '' says Cathleen B. Stewart , executive vice president of marketing . 
In any case , the brokerage firms are clearly moving faster to create new ads than they did in the fall of 1987 . 
But it remains to be seen whether their ads will be any more effective . 
In 1987 , despite a barrage of ads from most of the major investment firms , individuals ran from the market en masse . 
Now the firms must try their hardest to prove that advertising can work this time around . 
Ad Notes ... . 
ARNOLD ADVERTISING : 
Edward Eskandarian , former chairman of Della Femina , McNamee WCRS\/Boston , reached an agreement in principle to acquire a majority stake in Arnold Advertising , a small Boston shop . 
Terms were n't disclosed . 
Mr. Eskandarian , who resigned his Della Femina post in September , becomes chairman and chief executive of Arnold . 
John Verret , the agency 's president and chief executive , will retain the title of president . 
Separately , McDonald 's Corp. , Oak Brook , Ill. , named Arnold to handle its estimated $ 4 million cooperative ad account for the Hartford , Conn. , area . 
That account had been handled by Della Femina , McNamee WCRS . 
EDUCATION ADS : 
A 142-page ad supplement to Business Week 's special `` Corporate Elite '' issue calls on business leaders to use their clout to help solve the nation 's education crisis . 
The supplement , the largest ever for the magazine , includes ads from 52 corporate advertisers and kicks off a two-year Business Week initiative on education . 
The magazine will distribute 10 % of the gross revenues from the supplement as grants to innovative teachers . 
You know what the law of averages is , do n't you ? 
It 's what 1 ) explains why we are like , well , ourselves rather than Bo Jackson ; 2 ) cautions that it 's possible to drown in a lake that averages two feet deep ; and 3 ) predicts that 10,000 monkeys placed before 10,000 pianos would produce 1,118 publishable rock 'n' roll tunes . 
Baseball , that game of the long haul , is the quintessential sport of the mean , and the mean ol' law caught up with the San Francisco Giants in the World Series last weekend . 
The team that dumped runs by the bushel on the Chicago Cubs in the National League playoffs was held to just one in two games by the home-team Oakland A 's , the gang that had been done unto similarly by the Los Angeles Dodgers and Orel Hershiser in last year 's tournament . 
Morever , much of the damage was accomplished by A 's who had some catching up to do . 
In game two , on a cool Sunday evening in this land of perpetual autumn , a lot of the catching up was done by the A 's catcher , Terry Steinbach . 
He hit a 2-0 pitch from Rick Reuschel into the left-field stands in inning four to stretch his team 's lead from 2-1 to a decisive 5-1 , where it stayed . 
So what if Steinbach had struck just seven home runs in 130 regular-season games , and batted in the seventh position of the A 's lineup . 
`` If you get your pitch , and take a good swing , anything can happen , '' he later remarked . 
On Saturday night , quite a few of the boys in green and gold salted away successes to salve the pain of past and , no doubt , future droughts . 
Mark McGwire , the big , red-haired Oakland first baseman , had three hits in four at bats , two more than he 'd had in the five-game Dodger series in which he 'd gone 1-for-17 . 
The A-men batting Nos. 6 through 9 , a.k.a. the `` bottom of the order , '' got seven of their team 's 11 hits and scored four of its runs in a 5-0 decision . 
Right-hander Dave Stewart held the Giants to five hits to account for the zero on the other side of the Saturday ledger . 
That he was the A 's winningest pitcher during its American League campaign with a 21-9 mark , plus two wins over Toronto in the playoffs , indicates he may have some evening up coming , but with the way his split-fingered fastball is behaving , that might not be this week . 
The same goes for Mike Moore , another veteran who overcame early struggles to permit the Giants but a run and four hits in seven innings in Sunday 's contest . 
`` Every guy they put out there had a better split-finger than the guy before , '' marveled Giant manager Roger Craig . 
He 's an ex-hurler who 's one of the leading gurus of the fashionable delivery , which looks like a fastball until it dives beneath the lunging bat . 
The upshot of the downshoot is that the A 's go into San Francisco 's Candlestick Park tonight up two games to none in the best-of-seven fest . 
The stat to reckon with here says that about three of four clubs ( 29 of 39 ) that took 2-0 Series leads went on to win it all . 
That 's not an average to soothe Giant rooters . 
One might think that the home fans in this Series of the Subway Called BART ( that 's a better name for a public conveyance than `` Desire , '' do n't you think ? ) would have been ecstatic over the proceedings , but they observe them in relative calm . 
Partisans of the two combatants sat side by side in the 49,000-plus seats of Oakland Coliseum , and while they cheered their favorites and booed the opposition , hostilities advanced no further , at least as far as I could see . 
A few folks even showed up wearing caps bearing the colors and emblems of both teams . 
`` I 'm for the Giants today , but only because they lost yesterday . 
I love 'em both . 
The only thing I 'm rooting for is for the Series to go seven games , '' said David Williams , a Sacramento septuagenarian , at the Coliseum before Sunday 's go . 
The above represents a triumph of either apathy or civility . 
I choose to believe it 's the latter , although it probably springs from the fact that just about everyone out here , including the A 's and Giants , is originally from somewhere else . 
Suffice it to say that if this were a New York Yankees-Mets series , or one between the Chicago Cubs and White Sox ( hey , it 's possible ) , you 'd need uniformed police in every other seat to separate opposing fans , and only the suicidal would bifurcate their bonnets . 
Anyway , the A 's gave you a lot of heroes to root for . 
In the opening game , besides Steinbach and Stewart , there was Walt Weiss , a twiggy-looking , second-year shortstop who had lost a couple months of the season to knee surgery . 
He was flawless afield ( ditto in game two ) , moved a runner along in the A 's three-run second inning , and homered for his team 's final tally . 
Such is his reputation among the East Bay Bashers that when he hit his first career home run last season , the fan who caught it agreed to turn the ball over to him in return for an autograph . 
Not his autograph ; power-hitter McGwire 's . 
An A 's co-hero of the second game was Rickey Henderson , who exemplifies the hot side of the hot-cold equation . 
He smoked Toronto in the playoffs with six hits , seven walks and eight stolen bases in 22 at bats , and continued that by going 3-for-3 at the plate Sunday , along with walking , stealing a base and scoring a run . 
`` When you 're in the groove , you see every ball tremendously , '' he lectured . 
The cold guys in the set were Will Clark , Kevin Mitchell and Matt Williams , the Giants ' 3-4-5 hitters . 
They combined for 25 hits , six home runs and 24 runs batted in in the five games against the Cubs . 
They went a collective 5-for-24 here , with zero homers and ribbies . 
It 's that last set of numbers , as much as anything else , that gives the Giants hope in the Series games to come . 
`` I believe in the law of averages , '' declared San Francisco batting coach Dusty Baker after game two . 
`` I 'd rather see a so-so hitter who 's hot come up for the other side than a good hitter who 's cold . '' 
But the old Dodger slugger wisely offered no prediction about when good times would return to his side . 
`` When it goes , you never know when you 'll get it back , '' he said . 
`` That 's baseball . 
NCR Corp. reported a 10 % drop in third-quarter net income , citing intense competition that caused its gross profit margins to dip . 
Net income for the quarter fell to $ 93.1 million from $ 103.1 million , roughly what analysts had expected . 
But per-share profit dropped only 2 % to $ 1.23 a share from $ 1.26 a share , as the company continued its stock buy-back plan . 
Average shares outstanding dropped to 75.8 million from 82.1 million . 
Revenue fell 1 % to $ 1.39 billion from $ 1.41 billion . 
The computer maker , which sells more than half its goods outside the U.S. , also said the negative effect of a stronger U.S. dollar will `` adversely affect '' its fourth-quarter performance and `` make it difficult '' to better 1988 results . 
NCR said revenue declined both in the U.S. and overseas , reflecting a world-wide softening of the computer markets . 
The company , however , said orders in the U.S. showed `` good gains '' during the latest quarter . 
Analysts estimate those gains at 12 % to 13 % , a good part of it coming from large orders placed by a few of NCR 's major customers . 
In addition to a general slowing of the computer industry , NCR , which sells automated teller machines and computerized cash registers , is also affected by the retail and financial sectors , `` areas of the economy that have generally not been robust , '' notes Sanjiv G. Hingorani , an analyst for Salomon Brothers Inc . 
These factors , combined with a strong dollar , should negatively affect the current quarter 's results , NCR said . 
In the year-earlier fourth quarter , NCR had profit of $ 149.6 million , or $ 1.85 a share , on revenue of $ 1.8 billion . 
Mr. Hingorani said he lowered his full-year estimates for 1989 to $ 5.35 a share from $ 5.50 a share . 
Revenue projections were slashed to $ 6.03 billion from $ 6.20 billion . 
Last year , NCR had net income of $ 439.3 million , or $ 5.33 a share , on $ 5.99 billion in revenue . 
For the nine months , the company 's earnings fell 9 % to $ 264.6 million , or $ 3.40 a share , from $ 289.7 million , or $ 3.49 a share . 
Revenues declined 1 % to $ 4.17 billion from $ 4.19 billion . 
In New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday , NCR shares fell 75 cents to close at $ 57 . 
Concerning your Sept. 19 article `` Wall Street Firms Link Analysts ' Pay to Performance , '' I 'm delighted that Wall Street is finally tuning in to the hard , cold facts of the real working world . 
If the firms are serious , however , why limit the practice to the poor , maligned analysts whose ability to see into the future is fragile at best ? 
Why not extend the same harsh standards to the sales force , and pay brokers a base salary with annual bonus based on how much money they made for their clients during the year ? 
That should stop a lot of account-churning , and produce a stock market driven only by professional concern , careful thought and good sense . 
Now , would n't that be a novelty . 
Phyllis Kyle Stephenson Newport News , Va . 
Steve Clark , a Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc. trader , reported for work at 5 a.m. , two and a half hours before the usual Monday morning strategy meeting . 
At Jefferies & Co. , J. Francis Palamara did n't reach the office until 5:30 a.m. , but then he had been up most of the night at home . 
`` I had calls all night long from the States , '' he said . 
`` I was woken up every hour -- 1:30 , 2:30 , 3:30 , 4:30 . 
People are looking for possible opportunities to buy , but nobody wants to stick their chin out . '' 
For many of London 's securities traders , it was a day that started nervously in the small hours . 
By lunchtime , the selling was at near-panic fever . 
But as the day ended in a frantic Wall Street-inspired rally , the City breathed a sigh of relief . 
So it went yesterday in the trading rooms of London 's financial district . 
In the wake of Wall Street 's plunge last Friday , the London market was considered especially vulnerable . 
And before the opening of trading here yesterday , all eyes were on early trading in Tokyo for a clue as to how widespread the fallout might be . 
By the time trading officially got under way at 9 a.m. , the news from Asia was in . 
And it left mixed signals for London . 
Tokyo stocks closed off a significant but less-than-alarming 1.8 % on thin volume ; Hong Kong stocks declined 6.5 % in orderly trading . 
At Jefferies ' trading room on Finsbury Circus , a stately circle at the edge of the financial district , desktop computer screens displayed the London market 's major barometer -- the Financial Times-Stock Exchange 100 Share Index . 
Red figures on the screens indicated falling stocks ; blue figures , rising stocks . 
Right away , the reds outnumbered the blues , 80 to 20 , as the index opened at 2076.8 , off 157.1 points , or 7 % . 
`` I see concern , but I do n't see any panic , '' said Mr. Palamara , a big , good-humored New York native who runs the 15-trader office . 
The Jefferies office , a branch of the Los Angeles-based firm , played it conservatively , seeking to avoid risk . 
`` This is not the sort of market to have a big position in , '' said David Smith , who heads trading in all non-U.S. stocks . 
`` We tend to run a very tight book . '' 
Jefferies spent most of its energies in the morning trying to match buyers and sellers , and there were n't many buyers . 
`` All the takeover stocks -- Scottish & Newcastle , B.A.T , DRG -- are getting pretty well pasted this morning , '' Mr. Smith said . 
Seconds later , a 7,500-share `` sell '' order for Scottish & Newcastle came in . 
For the third time in 15 minutes , a trader next to Mr. Smith left the no-smoking area to have a cigarette . 
On the screens , only two forlorn blue figures remained , but the index had recovered a few points and was off about 140 . 
`` Because Tokyo did n't collapse , let 's pick up a little stock , '' Mr. Smith said . 
He targeted 7,500 shares of Reuters and punched a button to call up on his screen other dealers ' price quotes . 
The vivid yellow figures showed the best price at 845 pence , ( $ 13.27 ) and Mr. Smith 's traders started putting out feelers . 
But the market sensed a serious buyer on a day dominated by selling , and the quotes immediately jumped to 850 pence . 
`` When I want to buy , they run from you -- they keep changing their prices , '' Mr. Smith said . 
`` It 's very frustrating . '' 
He temporarily abandoned his search for the Reuters shares . 
By this time , it was 4:30 a.m. in New York , and Mr. Smith fielded a call from a New York customer wanting an opinion on the British stock market , which had been having troubles of its own even before Friday 's New York market break . 
`` Fundamentally dangerous ... , '' Mr. Smith said , almost in a whisper , `` ... . fundamentally weak ... fairly vulnerable still ... extremely dangerously poised ... 
we 're in for a lot of turbulence ... . '' 
He was right . 
By midday , the London market was in full retreat . 
`` It 's falling like a stone , '' said Danny Linger , a pit trader who was standing outside the London International Financial Futures Exchange . 
Only half the usual lunchtime crowd gathered at the tony Corney & Barrow wine bar on Old Broad Street nearby . 
Conversation was subdued as most patrons watched the latest market statistics on television . 
At 12:49 p.m. , the index hit its low , 2029.7 , off 204.2 points . 
`` France opened the limit down , off at least 10 % if you could calculate the index , which you could n't , '' Mr. Clark , the Shearson trader , said early in the afternoon . 
`` Spain is down 10 % and suspended , Sweden 's down 8 % , Norway 11 % . 
This market has been very badly damaged . '' 
As 2:30 p.m. -- Wall Street 's opening time -- neared , Shearson traders and salesmen traded bets on how low the New York market would open . 
In the center of the trading floor , chief trader Roger Streeter and two colleagues scrambled for the telephones as soon as the New York market opened -- plummeting more than 60 points in the first few minutes . 
They saw an opportunity created by the sell-off . 
As Wall Street traders dumped American Depositary Receipts in Jaguar PLC , Mr. Streeter and trader Sam Ruiz bought them to resell in the U.K . 
Investors here still expect Ford Motor Co. or General Motors Corp. to bid for Jaguar . 
Suddenly , after about 45 minutes , the U.S. markets rallied . 
`` The MMI has gone better , '' shouted one trader at about 3:15 London time , as the U.S. Major Markets Index contract suddenly indicated a turnabout . 
