Influential members of the House Ways and Means Committee introduced legislation that would restrict how the new savings-and-loan bailout agency can raise capital , creating another potential obstacle to the government 's sale of sick thrifts . 
The bill , whose backers include Chairman Dan Rostenkowski ( D. , Ill. ) , would prevent the Resolution Trust Corp. from raising temporary working capital by having an RTC-owned bank or thrift issue debt that would n't be counted on the federal budget . 
The bill intends to restrict the RTC to Treasury borrowings only , unless the agency receives specific congressional authorization . 
`` Such agency ` self-help ' borrowing is unauthorized and expensive , far more expensive than direct Treasury borrowing , '' said Rep. Fortney Stark ( D. , Calif. ) , the bill 's chief sponsor . 
The complex financing plan in the S&L bailout law includes raising $ 30 billion from debt issued by the newly created RTC . 
This financing system was created in the new law in order to keep the bailout spending from swelling the budget deficit . 
Another $ 20 billion would be raised through Treasury bonds , which pay lower interest rates . 
But the RTC also requires `` working '' capital to maintain the bad assets of thrifts that are sold , until the assets can be sold separately . 
That debt would be paid off as the assets are sold , leaving the total spending for the bailout at $ 50 billion , or $ 166 billion including interest over 10 years . 
`` It 's a problem that clearly has to be resolved , '' said David Cooke , executive director of the RTC . 
The agency has already spent roughly $ 19 billion selling 34 insolvent S&Ls , and it is likely to sell or merge 600 by the time the bailout concludes . 
Absent other working capital , he said , the RTC would be forced to delay other thrift resolutions until cash could be raised by selling the bad assets . 
`` We would have to wait until we have collected on those assets before we can move forward , '' he said . 
The complicated language in the huge new law has muddied the fight . 
The law does allow the RTC to borrow from the Treasury up to $ 5 billion at any time . 
Moreover , it says the RTC 's total obligations may not exceed $ 50 billion , but that figure is derived after including notes and other debt , and subtracting from it the market value of the assets the RTC holds . 
But Congress did n't anticipate or intend more public debt , say opponents of the RTC 's working-capital plan , and Rep. Charles Schumer ( D. , N.Y . ) said the RTC Oversight Board has been remiss in not keeping Congress informed . 
`` That secrecy leads to a proposal like the one from Ways and Means , which seems to me sort of draconian , '' he said . 
`` The RTC is going to have to pay a price of prior consultation on the Hill if they want that kind of flexibility . '' 
The Ways and Means Committee will hold a hearing on the bill next Tuesday . 
We 're about to see if advertising works . 
Hard on the heels of Friday 's 190-point stock-market plunge and the uncertainty that 's followed , a few big brokerage firms are rolling out new ads trumpeting a familiar message : Keep on investing , the market 's just fine . 
Their mission is to keep clients from fleeing the market , as individual investors did in droves after the crash in October 
Just days after the 1987 crash , major brokerage firms rushed out ads to calm investors . 
This time around , they 're moving even faster . 
PaineWebber Inc. filmed a new television commercial at 4 p.m. EDT yesterday and had it on the air by last night . 
Fidelity Investments placed new ads in newspapers yesterday , and wrote another new ad appearing today . 
Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc. by yesterday afternoon had already written new TV ads . 
It considered running them during tomorrow night 's World Series broadcast but decided not to when the market recovered yesterday . 
Other brokerage firms , including Merrill Lynch & Co. , were plotting out potential new ad strategies . 
The brokerage firms learned a lesson the last time around , when frightened investors flooded the phone lines and fled the market in a panic . 
This time , the firms were ready . 
Fidelity , for example , prepared ads several months ago in case of a market plunge . 
When the market went into its free fall Friday afternoon , the investment firm ordered full pages in the Monday editions of half a dozen newspapers . 
The ads touted Fidelity 's automated 800-number beneath the huge headline , `` Fidelity Is Ready For Your Call . '' 
A Fidelity spokesman says the 800-line , which already was operating but which many clients did n't know about , received about double the usual volume of calls over the weekend . 
`` A lot of investor confidence comes from the fact that they can speak to us , '' he says . 
`` To maintain that dialogue is absolutely crucial . 
It would have been too late to think about on Friday . 
We had to think about it ahead of time . '' 
Today 's Fidelity ad goes a step further , encouraging investors to stay in the market or even to plunge in with Fidelity . 
Underneath the headline `` Diversification , '' it counsels , `` Based on the events of the past week , all investors need to know their portfolios are balanced to help protect them against the market 's volatility . '' 
It goes on to plug a few diversified Fidelity funds by name . 
PaineWebber also was able to gear up quickly thanks to the 1987 crash . 
In the aftermath of the 1987 debacle , the brokerage firm began taping commercials in-house , ultimately getting its timing down fast enough to tape a commercial after the market closed and rush it on the air that night . 
It also negotiated an arrangement with Cable News Network under which CNN would agree to air its last-minute creations . 
The new PaineWebber commercial , created with ad agency Saatchi & Saatchi Co. , features Mary Farrell , one of the firm 's most visible investment strategists , sounding particularly bullish . 
Taped just as the market closed yesterday , it offers Ms. Farrell advising , `` We view the market here as going through a relatively normal cycle ... . 
We continue to feel that the stock market is still the place to be for long-term appreciation . '' 
The spot was scheduled to appear three times on CNN last night . 
PaineWebber considered an even harder sell , recommending specific stocks . 
Instead , it settled on just urging the clients who are its lifeline to keep that money in the market . 
`` We 're saying the worst thing that anyone can do is to see the market go down and dump everything , which just drives the prices down further , '' says John Lampe , PaineWebber 's director of advertising . 
`` If you owned it and liked it Friday , the true value has n't changed . '' 
He adds , `` This is n't 1987 revisited . '' 
With the market fluctuating and then closing up more than 88 points yesterday , investment firms had to constantly revise their approach . 
At Shearson Lehman , executives created potential new commercials Friday night and throughout the weekend , then had to regroup yesterday afternoon . 
The plan had been to make one of Shearson 's easy-to-film , black-and-white `` Where We Stand '' commercials , which have been running occasionally in response to news events since 1985 . 
The ad would have run during the World Series tomorrow , replacing the debut commercial of Shearson 's new ad campaign , `` Leadership by Example . '' 
But in a meeting after the market closed yesterday , Shearson executives decided not to go ahead with the stock-market ad . 
`` We do n't think at this point anything needs to be said . 
The market seems to be straightening out ; we 're taking a wait-and-see attitude , '' says Cathleen B. Stewart , executive vice president of marketing . 
In any case , the brokerage firms are clearly moving faster to create new ads than they did in the fall of 1987 . 
But it remains to be seen whether their ads will be any more effective . 
In 1987 , despite a barrage of ads from most of the major investment firms , individuals ran from the market en masse . 
Now the firms must try their hardest to prove that advertising can work this time around . 
Ad Notes ... . 
ARNOLD ADVERTISING : 
Edward Eskandarian , former chairman of Della Femina , McNamee WCRS\/Boston , reached an agreement in principle to acquire a majority stake in Arnold Advertising , a small Boston shop . 
Terms were n't disclosed . 
Mr. Eskandarian , who resigned his Della Femina post in September , becomes chairman and chief executive of Arnold . 
John Verret , the agency 's president and chief executive , will retain the title of president . 
Separately , McDonald 's Corp. , Oak Brook , Ill. , named Arnold to handle its estimated $ 4 million cooperative ad account for the Hartford , Conn. , area . 
That account had been handled by Della Femina , McNamee WCRS . 
EDUCATION ADS : 
A 142-page ad supplement to Business Week 's special `` Corporate Elite '' issue calls on business leaders to use their clout to help solve the nation 's education crisis . 
The supplement , the largest ever for the magazine , includes ads from 52 corporate advertisers and kicks off a two-year Business Week initiative on education . 
The magazine will distribute 10 % of the gross revenues from the supplement as grants to innovative teachers . 
You know what the law of averages is , do n't you ? 
It 's what 1 ) explains why we are like , well , ourselves rather than Bo Jackson ; 2 ) cautions that it 's possible to drown in a lake that averages two feet deep ; and 3 ) predicts that 10,000 monkeys placed before 10,000 pianos would produce 1,118 publishable rock 'n' roll tunes . 
Baseball , that game of the long haul , is the quintessential sport of the mean , and the mean ol' law caught up with the San Francisco Giants in the World Series last weekend . 
The team that dumped runs by the bushel on the Chicago Cubs in the National League playoffs was held to just one in two games by the home-team Oakland A 's , the gang that had been done unto similarly by the Los Angeles Dodgers and Orel Hershiser in last year 's tournament . 
Morever , much of the damage was accomplished by A 's who had some catching up to do . 
In game two , on a cool Sunday evening in this land of perpetual autumn , a lot of the catching up was done by the A 's catcher , Terry Steinbach . 
He hit a 2-0 pitch from Rick Reuschel into the left-field stands in inning four to stretch his team 's lead from 2-1 to a decisive 5-1 , where it stayed . 
So what if Steinbach had struck just seven home runs in 130 regular-season games , and batted in the seventh position of the A 's lineup . 
`` If you get your pitch , and take a good swing , anything can happen , '' he later remarked . 
On Saturday night , quite a few of the boys in green and gold salted away successes to salve the pain of past and , no doubt , future droughts . 
Mark McGwire , the big , red-haired Oakland first baseman , had three hits in four at bats , two more than he 'd had in the five-game Dodger series in which he 'd gone 1-for-17 . 
The A-men batting Nos. 6 through 9 , a.k.a. the `` bottom of the order , '' got seven of their team 's 11 hits and scored four of its runs in a 5-0 decision . 
Right-hander Dave Stewart held the Giants to five hits to account for the zero on the other side of the Saturday ledger . 
That he was the A 's winningest pitcher during its American League campaign with a 21-9 mark , plus two wins over Toronto in the playoffs , indicates he may have some evening up coming , but with the way his split-fingered fastball is behaving , that might not be this week . 
The same goes for Mike Moore , another veteran who overcame early struggles to permit the Giants but a run and four hits in seven innings in Sunday 's contest . 
`` Every guy they put out there had a better split-finger than the guy before , '' marveled Giant manager Roger Craig . 
He 's an ex-hurler who 's one of the leading gurus of the fashionable delivery , which looks like a fastball until it dives beneath the lunging bat . 
The upshot of the downshoot is that the A 's go into San Francisco 's Candlestick Park tonight up two games to none in the best-of-seven fest . 
The stat to reckon with here says that about three of four clubs ( 29 of 39 ) that took 2-0 Series leads went on to win it all . 
That 's not an average to soothe Giant rooters . 
One might think that the home fans in this Series of the Subway Called BART ( that 's a better name for a public conveyance than `` Desire , '' do n't you think ? ) would have been ecstatic over the proceedings , but they observe them in relative calm . 
Partisans of the two combatants sat side by side in the 49,000-plus seats of Oakland Coliseum , and while they cheered their favorites and booed the opposition , hostilities advanced no further , at least as far as I could see . 
A few folks even showed up wearing caps bearing the colors and emblems of both teams . 
`` I 'm for the Giants today , but only because they lost yesterday . 
I love 'em both . 
The only thing I 'm rooting for is for the Series to go seven games , '' said David Williams , a Sacramento septuagenarian , at the Coliseum before Sunday 's go . 
The above represents a triumph of either apathy or civility . 
I choose to believe it 's the latter , although it probably springs from the fact that just about everyone out here , including the A 's and Giants , is originally from somewhere else . 
Suffice it to say that if this were a New York Yankees-Mets series , or one between the Chicago Cubs and White Sox ( hey , it 's possible ) , you 'd need uniformed police in every other seat to separate opposing fans , and only the suicidal would bifurcate their bonnets . 
Anyway , the A 's gave you a lot of heroes to root for . 
In the opening game , besides Steinbach and Stewart , there was Walt Weiss , a twiggy-looking , second-year shortstop who had lost a couple months of the season to knee surgery . 
He was flawless afield ( ditto in game two ) , moved a runner along in the A 's three-run second inning , and homered for his team 's final tally . 
Such is his reputation among the East Bay Bashers that when he hit his first career home run last season , the fan who caught it agreed to turn the ball over to him in return for an autograph . 
Not his autograph ; power-hitter McGwire 's . 
An A 's co-hero of the second game was Rickey Henderson , who exemplifies the hot side of the hot-cold equation . 
He smoked Toronto in the playoffs with six hits , seven walks and eight stolen bases in 22 at bats , and continued that by going 3-for-3 at the plate Sunday , along with walking , stealing a base and scoring a run . 
`` When you 're in the groove , you see every ball tremendously , '' he lectured . 
The cold guys in the set were Will Clark , Kevin Mitchell and Matt Williams , the Giants ' 3-4-5 hitters . 
They combined for 25 hits , six home runs and 24 runs batted in in the five games against the Cubs . 
They went a collective 5-for-24 here , with zero homers and ribbies . 
It 's that last set of numbers , as much as anything else , that gives the Giants hope in the Series games to come . 
`` I believe in the law of averages , '' declared San Francisco batting coach Dusty Baker after game two . 
`` I 'd rather see a so-so hitter who 's hot come up for the other side than a good hitter who 's cold . '' 
But the old Dodger slugger wisely offered no prediction about when good times would return to his side . 
`` When it goes , you never know when you 'll get it back , '' he said . 
`` That 's baseball . 
NCR Corp. reported a 10 % drop in third-quarter net income , citing intense competition that caused its gross profit margins to dip . 
Net income for the quarter fell to $ 93.1 million from $ 103.1 million , roughly what analysts had expected . 
But per-share profit dropped only 2 % to $ 1.23 a share from $ 1.26 a share , as the company continued its stock buy-back plan . 
Average shares outstanding dropped to 75.8 million from 82.1 million . 
Revenue fell 1 % to $ 1.39 billion from $ 1.41 billion . 
The computer maker , which sells more than half its goods outside the U.S. , also said the negative effect of a stronger U.S. dollar will `` adversely affect '' its fourth-quarter performance and `` make it difficult '' to better 1988 results . 
NCR said revenue declined both in the U.S. and overseas , reflecting a world-wide softening of the computer markets . 
The company , however , said orders in the U.S. showed `` good gains '' during the latest quarter . 
Analysts estimate those gains at 12 % to 13 % , a good part of it coming from large orders placed by a few of NCR 's major customers . 
In addition to a general slowing of the computer industry , NCR , which sells automated teller machines and computerized cash registers , is also affected by the retail and financial sectors , `` areas of the economy that have generally not been robust , '' notes Sanjiv G. Hingorani , an analyst for Salomon Brothers Inc . 
These factors , combined with a strong dollar , should negatively affect the current quarter 's results , NCR said . 
In the year-earlier fourth quarter , NCR had profit of $ 149.6 million , or $ 1.85 a share , on revenue of $ 1.8 billion . 
Mr. Hingorani said he lowered his full-year estimates for 1989 to $ 5.35 a share from $ 5.50 a share . 
Revenue projections were slashed to $ 6.03 billion from $ 6.20 billion . 
Last year , NCR had net income of $ 439.3 million , or $ 5.33 a share , on $ 5.99 billion in revenue . 
For the nine months , the company 's earnings fell 9 % to $ 264.6 million , or $ 3.40 a share , from $ 289.7 million , or $ 3.49 a share . 
Revenues declined 1 % to $ 4.17 billion from $ 4.19 billion . 
In New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday , NCR shares fell 75 cents to close at $ 57 . 
Concerning your Sept. 19 article `` Wall Street Firms Link Analysts ' Pay to Performance , '' I 'm delighted that Wall Street is finally tuning in to the hard , cold facts of the real working world . 
If the firms are serious , however , why limit the practice to the poor , maligned analysts whose ability to see into the future is fragile at best ? 
Why not extend the same harsh standards to the sales force , and pay brokers a base salary with annual bonus based on how much money they made for their clients during the year ? 
That should stop a lot of account-churning , and produce a stock market driven only by professional concern , careful thought and good sense . 
Now , would n't that be a novelty . 
Phyllis Kyle Stephenson Newport News , Va . 
Steve Clark , a Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc. trader , reported for work at 5 a.m. , two and a half hours before the usual Monday morning strategy meeting . 
At Jefferies & Co. , J. Francis Palamara did n't reach the office until 5:30 a.m. , but then he had been up most of the night at home . 
`` I had calls all night long from the States , '' he said . 
`` I was woken up every hour -- 1:30 , 2:30 , 3:30 , 4:30 . 
People are looking for possible opportunities to buy , but nobody wants to stick their chin out . '' 
For many of London 's securities traders , it was a day that started nervously in the small hours . 
By lunchtime , the selling was at near-panic fever . 
But as the day ended in a frantic Wall Street-inspired rally , the City breathed a sigh of relief . 
So it went yesterday in the trading rooms of London 's financial district . 
In the wake of Wall Street 's plunge last Friday , the London market was considered especially vulnerable . 
And before the opening of trading here yesterday , all eyes were on early trading in Tokyo for a clue as to how widespread the fallout might be . 
By the time trading officially got under way at 9 a.m. , the news from Asia was in . 
And it left mixed signals for London . 
Tokyo stocks closed off a significant but less-than-alarming 1.8 % on thin volume ; Hong Kong stocks declined 6.5 % in orderly trading . 
At Jefferies ' trading room on Finsbury Circus , a stately circle at the edge of the financial district , desktop computer screens displayed the London market 's major barometer -- the Financial Times-Stock Exchange 100 Share Index . 
Red figures on the screens indicated falling stocks ; blue figures , rising stocks . 
Right away , the reds outnumbered the blues , 80 to 20 , as the index opened at 2076.8 , off 157.1 points , or 7 % . 
`` I see concern , but I do n't see any panic , '' said Mr. Palamara , a big , good-humored New York native who runs the 15-trader office . 
The Jefferies office , a branch of the Los Angeles-based firm , played it conservatively , seeking to avoid risk . 
`` This is not the sort of market to have a big position in , '' said David Smith , who heads trading in all non-U.S. stocks . 
`` We tend to run a very tight book . '' 
Jefferies spent most of its energies in the morning trying to match buyers and sellers , and there were n't many buyers . 
`` All the takeover stocks -- Scottish & Newcastle , B.A.T , DRG -- are getting pretty well pasted this morning , '' Mr. Smith said . 
Seconds later , a 7,500-share `` sell '' order for Scottish & Newcastle came in . 
For the third time in 15 minutes , a trader next to Mr. Smith left the no-smoking area to have a cigarette . 
On the screens , only two forlorn blue figures remained , but the index had recovered a few points and was off about 140 . 
`` Because Tokyo did n't collapse , let 's pick up a little stock , '' Mr. Smith said . 
He targeted 7,500 shares of Reuters and punched a button to call up on his screen other dealers ' price quotes . 
The vivid yellow figures showed the best price at 845 pence , ( $ 13.27 ) and Mr. Smith 's traders started putting out feelers . 
But the market sensed a serious buyer on a day dominated by selling , and the quotes immediately jumped to 850 pence . 
`` When I want to buy , they run from you -- they keep changing their prices , '' Mr. Smith said . 
`` It 's very frustrating . '' 
He temporarily abandoned his search for the Reuters shares . 
By this time , it was 4:30 a.m. in New York , and Mr. Smith fielded a call from a New York customer wanting an opinion on the British stock market , which had been having troubles of its own even before Friday 's New York market break . 
`` Fundamentally dangerous ... , '' Mr. Smith said , almost in a whisper , `` ... . fundamentally weak ... fairly vulnerable still ... extremely dangerously poised ... 
we 're in for a lot of turbulence ... . '' 
He was right . 
By midday , the London market was in full retreat . 
`` It 's falling like a stone , '' said Danny Linger , a pit trader who was standing outside the London International Financial Futures Exchange . 
Only half the usual lunchtime crowd gathered at the tony Corney & Barrow wine bar on Old Broad Street nearby . 
Conversation was subdued as most patrons watched the latest market statistics on television . 
At 12:49 p.m. , the index hit its low , 2029.7 , off 204.2 points . 
`` France opened the limit down , off at least 10 % if you could calculate the index , which you could n't , '' Mr. Clark , the Shearson trader , said early in the afternoon . 
`` Spain is down 10 % and suspended , Sweden 's down 8 % , Norway 11 % . 
This market has been very badly damaged . '' 
As 2:30 p.m. -- Wall Street 's opening time -- neared , Shearson traders and salesmen traded bets on how low the New York market would open . 
In the center of the trading floor , chief trader Roger Streeter and two colleagues scrambled for the telephones as soon as the New York market opened -- plummeting more than 60 points in the first few minutes . 
They saw an opportunity created by the sell-off . 
As Wall Street traders dumped American Depositary Receipts in Jaguar PLC , Mr. Streeter and trader Sam Ruiz bought them to resell in the U.K . 
Investors here still expect Ford Motor Co. or General Motors Corp. to bid for Jaguar . 
Suddenly , after about 45 minutes , the U.S. markets rallied . 
`` The MMI has gone better , '' shouted one trader at about 3:15 London time , as the U.S. Major Markets Index contract suddenly indicated a turnabout . 
As Wall Street strengthened , the London trading room went wild . 
Traders shouted as their screens posted an ever-narrowing loss on Wall Street . 
Then , nine minutes later , Wall Street suddenly rebounded to a gain on the day . 
`` Rally ! Rally ! Rally ! '' shouted Shearson trader Andy Rosen , selling more Jaguar shares . 
`` This is panic buying ! '' 
As the London market rallied , some wondered whether the weekend of worrying and jitters had been worth it . 
The London index closed at 2163.4 , its high for the day , off 70.5 , or about 3.3 % . 
Ambassador Paul Nitze 's statement ( Notable & Quotable , Sept. 20 ) , `` If you have a million people working for you , every bad thing that has one chance in a million of going wrong will go wrong at least once a year , '' is a pretty negative way of looking at things . 
Is n't it just as fair to say that if you have a million people working for you , every good thing that has one chance in a million of going right will go right at least once a year ? 
Do n't be such a pessimist , Mr. Ambassador . 
Frank Tremdine 
The House Aviation Subcommittee approved a bill that would give the transportation secretary authority to review and approve leveraged buy-outs of major U.S. airlines . 
The collapsed plan to acquire UAL Corp. , parent of United Airlines , spurred quick action on the legislation , introduced Wednesday and approved by the subcommittee on a voice vote yesterday . 
The bill is expected to be taken up by the Public Works and Transportation Committee tomorrow , and a floor vote by next week will be urged . 
The measure drew criticism from the Bush administration and a parting shot from financier Donald Trump , who yesterday withdrew his takeover bid for AMR Corp. , the parent of American Airlines . 
In a letter to subcommittee Chairman James Oberstar ( D. , Minn. ) , Mr. Trump criticized the bill as an explicit effort to thwart his bid for AMR , and said it contributed to the collapse of the deal . 
Elaine Chao , deputy transportation secretary , also sent a letter to express the administration 's opposition to the bill `` in its present form . '' 
Rep. Oberstar brushed off Mr. Trump 's allegations as an `` excuse for his own deal failing . '' 
He also said the fact that the other letter had n't come from Transportation Secretary Samuel Skinner indicated there is `` wiggle room '' in the administration 's position . 
Mr. Oberstar and other committee members repeatedly stressed that the legislation was n't a response to any particular market situation . 
But they cited the UAL and AMR examples as reasons to move quickly to enact this legislation . 
Aides both in the House and Senate said the withdrawal of the Trump bid for AMR is n't likely to deflate efforts to push the legislation . 
`` It 's still on the fast track and we still want to do it , '' said one Senate aide . 
The bill is aimed at addressing the concern that an airline might sacrifice costly safety measures to pay off the debt incurred in a leveraged buy-out . 
Currently , the transportation secretary does n't have clearly established authority to block mergers , but can take the drastic step of revoking the operating certificate of any carrier the official considers unfit . 
Supporters of the legislation view the bill as an effort to add stability and certainty to the airline-acquisition process , and to preserve the safety and fitness of the industry . 
In general , the bill would give the Transportation Department a 30-day review period before 15 % or more of the voting stock of a major U.S. air carrier could be acquired . 
It also would require the acquiring party to notify the transportation secretary and to provide all information relevant to determining the intent of the acquisition . 
The bill would allow the secretary to reject a buy-out if sufficient information has n't been provided , or if the buy-out is likely to weaken the carrier financially , result in a substantial reduction in size of the airline through disposal of assets , or give control to a foreign interest . 
If more information is needed , the secretary would have authority to extend the review period 20 days . 
All the witnesses , both congressmen and industry experts , expressed support for the bill in order to prevent profiteers from cashing in on airline profits at the expense of safe , cost-effective service . 
But several committee members disapproved , some backing Mr. Trump 's claim that the threat of regulation caused the failure of the UAL deal and the stock-market plunge . 
One of the major concerns expressed by the dissenters was that large airlines would be prohibited from divesting themselves of smaller entities and producing independent spin-off companies . 
In a possible prelude to the resumption of talks between Boeing Co. and striking Machinists union members , a federal mediator said representatives of the two sides will meet with him tomorrow . 
`` It could be a long meeting or it could be a short one , '' said Doug Hammond , the mediator , who called the agreement to meet a first step toward a resumption of negotiations . 
`` We 're encouraged that talks are scheduled again but beyond that , we have made no expression of expectations , '' a Boeing spokesman said . 
The Machinists union has rejected a three-year contract offer that would have provided a 10 % wage increase over the life of the pact , plus some bonuses . 
Currently , average pay for machinists is $ 13.39 an hour , Boeing said . 
Now in its 13th day , the strike has idled about 55,000 machinists and has started to delay delivery of some jetliners . 
With a strike fund of about $ 100 million , the union had said it was prepared for a long strike . 
After the third week on strike , union members will begin receiving $ 100 a week from the fund . 
Work at Boeing continues with supervisors and other non-striking personnel manning the lines . 
And at the company 's Wichita , Kan. , plant , about 2,400 of the 11,700 machinists still are working , Boeing said . 
Under Kansas right-to-work laws , contracts can not require workers to be union members . 
Boeing has declined to say how many employees are working at its giant Renton , Wash. , plant . 
Union officials could n't be reached for comment . 
DPC Acquisition Partners , a hostile suitor for Dataproducts Corp. , said it intends to launch a tender offer for the computer printer maker 's common stock . 
DPC , a group led by the New York investment firm Crescott Inc. , also said it plans to file preliminary materials with the Securities and Exchange Commission regarding a shareholder solicitation to oust Dataproducts ' board . 
DPC holds a 7.8 % stake in Dataproducts and made a $ 15-a-share bid for the company in May , but Dataproducts management considered the $ 283.7 million proposal unacceptable . 
A DPC spokesman declined to elaborate on the group 's new plan . 
In American Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday , Dataproducts shares jumped 62.5 cents to close at $ 9.375 . 
Dataproducts , which had been seeking a buyer for several months , announced a restructuring plan in September and took itself off the auction block . 
The company 's restructuring includes plans to split into three sectors , to phase out domestic printer manufacturing operations and to sell its New England subsidiary . 
As part of the plan , Dataproducts announced a pact to sell $ 63 million of its real estate holdings to Trizec Properties Inc. , a unit of Canada 's Trizec Corp . 
Jack Davis , Dataproducts ' president , chairman and chief executive officer , said the company `` is at a loss to understand DPC 's intentions . '' 
He called today 's announcement `` opportunistic and disruptive '' and said the company intends to proceed with its restructuring . 
Share prices plummeted across Europe yesterday in response to Friday 's New York sell-off , but some issues staged a late comeback after Wall Street opened without another rout . 
European investors have further reason for optimism today , after the U.S. rebound . 
The Frankfurt Stock Exchange , which closed before the New York exchanges opened , was the hardest hit of the major European markets , with the DAX Index dropping 12.8 % . 
In London , prices plummeted in early trading and were off as much as 9 % before coming back strong after the New York opening to close down only 3.2 % . 
West German Economics Minister Helmut Haussmann said , `` In my view , the stock market will stabilize relatively quickly . 
There may be one or other psychological or technical reactions , but they are n't based on fundamentals . 
The economy of West Germany and the EC { European Community } is highly stable . '' 
Paris , which has been the center of speculation fever in recent weeks , also was hard hit . 
Share prices fell in Milan , Amsterdam , Zurich , Madrid and Stockholm . 
Prices in Brussels , where a computer breakdown disrupted trading , also tumbled . 
Following is a breakdown of major market activity : 
FRANKFURT : 
One of the sharpest declines came in the financial center of Europe 's strongest economy . 
The DAX Index of 30 West German blue chips plunged 12.8 % , a one-day record , wiping out the summer 's gains . 
The index closed at 1385.72 , down 203.56 points . 
By comparison , two years ago on Black Monday , the new index would have dropped 9.4 % , according to a projection by the exchange . 
Investors may have reacted so strongly to Friday 's U.S. stock market loss because they had vivid memories of the Frankfurt exchange 's losing 35 % of its value in the 1987 crash and its wake . 
This time , however , many small investors may have been hurt by acting so swiftly . 
`` They all went in the wrong direction , '' said Andreas Insam , an investment adviser for the Bank in Liechtenstein 's Frankfurt branch . 
He said he told clients to buy selected West German blue chips after they fell by about 10 % . 
After the opening was delayed 30 minutes because of the crush of sell orders , Frankfurt 's normal two-hour trading session was extended 75 minutes to handle the heavy volume . 
`` The beginning was chaotic , '' said Nigel Longley , a broker for Commerzbank AG . 
`` It took three-quarters of an hour before enough prices could be worked out to get a reading on the market . '' 
Institutional investors and bankers , many of whom spent the night before in their offices watching Far Eastern markets , were cautiously optimistic after the mild 1.8 % decline in Tokyo stock prices . 
`` Everybody was still confident , including most institutional investors . 
That is why everybody was a little surprised by the storm of sell orders from small private investors , '' said Norbert Braeuer , a senior trader for Hessische Landesbank . 
Some big institutions , including banks , began picking up lower-priced shares late yesterday , but most investors wanted to see what would happen in New York before acting . 
But even if Wall Street continues to stabilize , analysts here say the latest blow to investor confidence could inhibit a swift recovery for the Frankfurt exchange , which already was showing signs of weakness after the DAX had slipped from a 1989 high of 1657.61 on Sept. 8 . 
Some of West Germany 's bluest chips took some of the biggest hits . 
A 16.3 % drop for Mannesmann AG and Dresdner Bank AG 's 9.6 % decline were especially problematic for their respective boards , whose plans for major rights issues in November could now be in jeopardy . 
Dresdner Bank last month said it hoped to raise 1.2 billion marks ( $ 642.2 million ) by issuing four million shares at 300 marks each . 
Yet yesterday 's market cropped Dresdner 's share price by 33 marks to 309 marks a share , leaving little incentive for investors to subscribe to the standing price unless the market recovers quickly . 
LONDON : 
Headed toward a record drop at midday , the London stock market recouped two-thirds of its losses in the wake of New York 's early rally . 
The Financial Times-Stock Exchange 100 Share Index closed off 70.5 points , at 2163.4 , its high for the day , after having plunged 204.2 points at 12:49 p.m . 
It was big institutions such as Norwich Union Insurance Group , Scottish Amicable Investment Managers and Standard Life Assurance Co. that spearheaded the rally . 
Attracted by low prices and encouraged by New York 's performance , they scooped up equities across the board . 
Volume was 959.3 million shares , more than triple recent levels . 
PARIS : 
Late buying gave the Paris Bourse a parachute after its free fall early in the day . 
The CAC General Index ended down 5.4 % at 523.6 , a drop of 29.6 points from Friday . 
`` There was a volatility in the market that I have never seen before , '' said Michel Vigier , a partner in brokerage firm Cholet Dupont . 
`` When Wall Street turned around shortly after the opening , there was panic buying in Paris . '' 
Brokers said that as the news spread that Wall Street was moving up , traders who had called to place sell orders changed their line in mid-conversation , ordering buys instead . 
Trading was driven primarily by small investors and speculators , with large institutions waiting on the sidelines until late in the day . 
When Wall Street turned , however , the big boys entered the market , looking for bargains . 
J.P. Morgan & Co. swung to a loss in the third quarter , while NCNB Corp. reported net income more than doubled , and Security Pacific Corp. net rose 10 % . 
J.P. Morgan & Co . 
J.P. Morgan , as expected , posted a $ 1.82 billion net loss for the quarter , reflecting the New York bank 's decision last month to add $ 2 billion to reserves for losses on loans to less-developed countries . 
The reserve addition placed the parent of Morgan Guaranty Trust Co. among a few major U.S. banks that have covered nearly all their medium and long-term portfolios to less-developed countries with reserves . 
The latest quarter 's loss equals $ 9.92 a share . 
In the year-earlier quarter , Morgan earned $ 233.6 million , or $ 1.25 a share . 
George M. Salem , analyst at Prudential-Bache Securities Inc. , called the results `` mildly disappointing . '' 
Excluding the $ 2 billion provision and allowing for the taxes Morgan paid , earnings were about 65 cents a share , Mr. Salem said . 
In New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday , Morgan climbed $ 1.50 a share to $ 44.125 . 
Net interest income sank 27 % in the quarter to $ 254 million from $ 347 million . 
The interest rate on short-term funds , which banks borrow to finance longer-term loans to customers , was `` sharply higher , '' Morgan said . 
Morgan received $ 2 million of interest payments on its medium and long-term Brazilian loans ; had they been accruing interest , net interest income would have been $ 35 million higher in the quarter , Morgan said . 
Such loans to Argentina also remain classified as non-accruing , costing the bank $ 10 million of interest income in the third period . 
Income from sources other than interest climbed 12 % to $ 414 million , reflecting higher corporate-finance and other fees and gains on sales of investment securities . 
`` These increases were partly offset by lower trading-related '' income , the bank said . 
Non-interest expenses grew 16 % to $ 496 million . 
NCNB Corp . 
NCNB Corp. 's net income more than doubled in the period , largely because of continued strong performance by the bank 's Texas operations . 
The Charlotte , N.C. , company said earnings rose to $ 143.6 million , or $ 1.45 a share , from $ 58.9 million , or 69 cents a share , a year earlier . 
The latest quarter included a gain of $ 56.1 million , or 59 cents a share , related to the purchase of the remaining 51 % of NCNB Texas National Bank from the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp . 
The strong performance , however , contrasted with an unexpectedly large increase in the size of NCNB 's problem loans , particularly in the Southeast . 
In the third quarter , nonperforming assets jumped to $ 474.1 million , or 1.43 % of net loans and leases , from $ 232.8 million , or 1.13 % in the second quarter . 
Nonperformers totaled $ 230.8 million , or 1.27 % in the year-ago third quarter . 
Included in the increase in the most recent quarter is a $ 33 million loan , which NCNB said it `` expects to be fully repaid , with no loss , early in the fourth quarter . '' 
The deterioration in credit quality offset strong loan growth of 17 % in NCNB 's Southeast operations , as well as a 28 % growth in deposits resulting from an aggressive marketing campaign . 
The higher rates paid on deposits also helped squeeze NCNB 's net interest margin in the Southeast to 3.38 % from 3.80 % a year earlier . 
In Big Board composite trading yesterday , NCNB jumped $ 3.50 a share , to $ 51 . 
Results were released after the market closed . 
NCNB Texas National , formed from the remnants of of the failed First RepublicBank Corp. of Dallas , contributed $ 76.9 million to NCNB 's bottom line in the third quarter . 
NCNB said its third-quarter results reflect 100 % of earnings of the Texas operation since Aug. 1 . 
NCNB raised some $ 1.9 billion in new capital during the quarter to complete the NCNB Texas purchase , and to acquire several small failed thrifts to fill out its regional franchise . 
Last week , the banking company said it purchased both Freedom Savings & Loan Association , Tampa , Fla. , and University Federal Savings Association of San Antonio , Texas , for $ 169.4 million . 
In the first nine months , NCNB 's net income climbed 65 % to $ 310.9 million , or $ 3.30 a share , from $ 188.2 million , or $ 2.22 a share , a year earlier . 
Security Pacific Corp . 
Security Pacific 's earnings growth slowed in the third quarter , but the Los Angeles bank holding company was still able to post a 10 % increase in net income because of robust growth in residential real-estate and consumer loans . 
Net rose to $ 185.1 million , or $ 1.55 a share , from $ 167.9 million , or $ 1.47 a share , a year earlier . 
The company said the gain resulted mainly from a $ 54 million increase in net interest income , reflecting a 33 % increase in real estate loans ( mainly residential ) , and a 19 % rise in consumer loans . 
These high-yielding loans in effect replaced some low-yielding assets such as inter-bank loans , which were allowed to decrease . 
As a result , Security Pacific 's net interest margin fell only 13 basis points , a more mild decrease than some major banks outside California , which have been reporting more sluggish earnings . 
Security Pacific shares closed at $ 44.625 , down 37.5 cents , in Big Board composite trading . 
The earnings represent a 0.89 % return on assets for Security Pacific , and an 18.9 % return on equity . 
The loan growth offset continuing real-estate loan losses in the depressed Arizona market . 
Security Pacific reported a 33 % increase in net credit losses for the quarter , to $ 109 million from $ 81.9 million in the year-ago period . 
Nonperforming loans grew slightly to $ 1.75 billion at Sept. 30 , from $ 1.7 billion a year ago . 
Security Pacific 's loan-loss provision was down 22 % , or $ 30.4 million , because it added to its foreign-debt reserve the year before . 
Non-interest income fell 6 % in the quarter , mainly because of an unusual gain a year earlier from the sale of Hong Kong banking operations . 
Non-interest expense grew only 4 % in the period . 
For the nine months , net rose 17 % to $ 548.9 million , or $ 4.67 a share , from $ 469.4 million , or $ 4.13 a share , a year earlier . 
LIN Broadcasting Corp. said it wo n't take a position on a revised tender offer by McCaw Cellular Communications Inc. to buy LIN and has asked for clarification of the offer . 
The new offer , which seeks 50.3 % of the cellular and broadcasting concern , is for $ 125 a share for 22 million LIN shares . 
McCaw 's revised tender offer would require McCaw to begin an auction process in July 1994 that would buy out remaining holders at a per-share price roughly equivalent to what a third party might then have to pay for all of LIN . 
LIN is asking McCaw to clarify its tender offer , which challenges an agreement between BellSouth Corp. and LIN to merge their cellular-telephone businesses . 
BellSouth has notified LIN that it would `` shortly respond to the McCaw proposal in as full and effective a manner as is warranted . '' 
The LIN board said holders may be misled by the provision in the McCaw proposal that `` guarantees '' private market value after five years for the remaining shares . 
McCaw has `` no obligation to purchase and the definition of private market value is uncertain , '' the LIN board said . 
The board added that McCaw would be able to control LIN 's operations and could , `` therefore , operate LIN in a manner which could diminish its private market value and attractiveness to a third-party purchaser in five years . '' 
In national over-the-counter trading , LIN closed at $ 104.75 , down $ 2.75 . 
A group of institutional investors in Telerate Inc. said that Dow Jones & Co. 's $ 18-a-share offer for the electronic financial information services company is `` grossly inadequate . '' 
In a letter filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission , the group , which holds about 4.5 million Telerate shares , or about 4.7 % of the shares outstanding , said `` ... at present none of us believes an offer for less than $ 25 per share would be fair and some believe that $ 25 is too low . '' 
The letter was dated Oct. 6 . 
In composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange , Telerate shares closed yesterday at $ 18.875 , down 75 cents a share . 
Dow Jones , publisher of The Wall Street Journal , has launched an $ 18-a-share , or $ 576 million , tender offer to acquire the remaining Telerate shares outstanding ; Dow Jones owns 67 % of Telerate . 
Telerate has rejected the offer , which expires Nov. 3 . 
The group includes Putnam Cos. and various affiliates based in Boston ; Wells Fargo Bank , San Francisco ; the California Public Employees Retirement System , Sacramento , Calif. , and T. Rowe Price Associates Inc. , Baltimore . 
Among other issues , the group 's letter said it has `` concerns as to whether Dow Jones 's offer meets the applicable requirements of procedural fairness . '' 
A spokesman for Dow Jones said he had n't seen the group 's filing , but added , `` obviously Dow Jones disagrees with their conclusions . 
Our offer is to buy any and all shares tendered at $ 18 a share . 
U.S. Trade Representative Carla Hills said the first dispute-settlement panel set up under the U.S.-Canadian `` free trade '' agreement has ruled that Canada 's restrictions on exports of Pacific salmon and herring violate the accord . 
Mrs. Hills said the U.S. and Canada have until Nov. 13 to resolve the dispute . 
If a solution is n't reached by then , she said , the U.S. would have the right to suspend some trade concessions to Canada equivalent in value to the losses suffered by U.S. fish-processing companies in Alaska and the Pacific Northwest . 
However , in Ottawa , Canadian Trade Minister John Crosbie said the dispute-settlement panel accepted the `` legitimacy of Canada 's position on the use of these landing requirements to conserve and manage these important fisheries . '' 
Questioned about the seeming contradiction in the U.S. and Canadian government views of the panel 's report , an aide for Mrs. Hills said the panel had clearly ruled that the Canadian trade restrictions `` are illegal . '' 
The U.S. trade representative declined to put a dollar estimate on the losses resulting from the Canadian export restrictions . 
Canada initially had an export prohibition that was replaced by regulations requiring that such fish had to be brought ashore in British Columbia by commercial fishermen prior to export . 
This action was defended by the Canadian government on conservation grounds . 
Mrs. Hills said yesterday that the dispute-settlement panel rejected this Canadian government argument . 
`` We fully expect that Canada will comply with the panel 's ruling '' that the `` landing requirement '' also must be ended , she said . 
Earlier , an international panel set up under the rules of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade in Geneva determined that the original Canadian fish-export restrictions violated GATT rules . 
Mrs. Hills said the U.S. wo n't accept any delays after Nov. 13 because U.S. fish-processing firms enter into contracts in the fall to purchase the next season 's catch . 
She said the Canadian restrictions must be removed before such contracts are concluded . 
Idle Thought 
To spend a carefree , idle day , When duty calls , to pay no heed , To while the precious hours away -- Character is what you need . 
-- May Richstone . 
Telecussed 
The guy who throws an intercept 'Cause his receiver slips Should somehow be advised that we At home can read his lips . 
-- Dick Emmons . 
BancOklahoma Corp. said it completed a restructuring agreement previously agreed to by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. , creditor banks and subordinated debenture holders . 
The plan would permit the bank holding company to retire its bank and debenture obligations through exchanges of cash and equity . 
The FDIC , which in 1986 provided $ 130 million in open-bank assistance to BancOklahoma 's Bank of Oklahoma , Tulsa , unit will continue to maintain $ 90 million in preferred stock in the Tulsa bank unit . 
In exchange for the other $ 40 million , the FDIC will receive additional warrants entitling it to buy 60 % of BancOklahoma 's common stock outstanding , up from the 55 % option the FDIC received under terms of the 1986 capital infusion . 
In exchange for the $ 76 million they are owed , creditor banks will receive 3.9 million shares of BancOklahoma common stock and the proceeds from the future sales of four subsidiary banks to private buyers , the bank holding company said . 
Also under the agreement , debenture holders will get one million shares of common stock in exchange for $ 7.7 million in debentures and holders of BancOklahoma 's series A preferred stock will receive 1.25 shares of common stock for every share of preferred they own , the company said . 
Bear Stearns 's chief economist , Lawrence Kudlow , in the Sept. 29 issue of the firm 's Global Spectator : 
Were it true that a weak currency paves the way for trade surpluses , then presumably Argentina would be the center of today 's global economy . 
BSN Corp. said it will begin an offer tomorrow to exchange up to one million of its common shares and all of its $ 16.6 million in 7 3\/4 % convertible debentures due 2001 for a package of new debt and common stock warrants . 
Under terms of the offer , the sporting goods maker will swap $ 9 face amount of 9 1\/4 % subordinated notes due 1996 and one warrant for each common share . 
Each warrant allows the holder to buy one BSN share for $ 10.75 a share at any time over the next seven years . 
BSN currently has 4.6 million common shares outstanding . 
BSN also is offering $ 850 face amount of new notes and 64 common-stock warrants for each $ 1,000 face amount of its convertible debt outstanding . 
The company said it can redeem the warrants at its option for $ 1 each . 
The offer is n't contingent on a certain amount of debt or stock being exchanged . 
BSN said it is making the offer to shrink its capital and increase shareholder value . 
If all the bondholders and holders of one million common shares accept the offer , BSN will increase its debt by $ 9 million , but it also will recognize a $ 2 million gain from retiring the old debt , said Michael J. Blumenfeld , president . 
`` We have sufficient cash flow to handle that , '' he said . 
The offers are scheduled to expire in mid to late November . 
Merrill Lynch & Co. 's net income dropped 37 % , while Bear Stearns Cos. posted a 7.5 % gain in net , and PaineWebber Group Inc. 's profit fell , but would have risen without a special gain a year ago . 
At Merrill Lynch , third-period net was $ 41 million , or 34 cents a share , down from $ 65.6 million , or 58 cents a share , a year ago . 
Total revenue reached $ 2.83 billion , up 10 % from $ 2.57 billion . 
The firm 's drop in net reflected weaker revenue in transactions for its own account -- a decline of 19 % to $ 314.6 million on reduced revenue from trading fixed-income securities . 
Investment banking revenue fell 22 % to $ 296.6 million on fewer equity and municipal underwritings . 
Merrill Lynch 's commission revenue grew 21 % , however , to $ 462.8 million , on higher share prices and volume and on strong sales of mutual funds . 
Revenue derived from interest and dividends jumped 30 % to $ 1.4 billion . 
Asset-management fee revenue grew 12 % to $ 151 million . 
The brokerage also reported a loss of $ 2.2 million from the discontinued operations and disposal of its Fine Homes International Limited Partnership real-estate subsidiary . 
Bear Stearns said net in the first quarter ended Sept. 29 reached $ 22.1 million , or 23 cents a share , from $ 20.5 million , or 20 cents a share , in the year-earlier quarter . 
Gross revenue rose 21 % to $ 580.4 million from $ 478.9 million . 
Profit from trading for its own account dropped , the securities firm said . 
Investment banking revenue climbed 25 % , while commission revenue advanced 31 % on a stronger retail market . 
Bear Stearns is the holding company for Bear , Stearns & Co. , the investment banking and brokerage firm . 
In New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday , Bear Stearns shares closed at $ 13.625 , down 25 cents . 
Separately , PaineWebber posted net income for the third quarter of $ 16.8 million , or 41 cents a share , reflecting a `` broad-based improvement '' in the company 's core businesses . 
Retail profit surged , but the company said it was only a `` modest contributor '' to third-quarter results . 
A year ago , net at the New York investment banking firm was $ 20.9 million , or 50 cents a share , including a special pretax gain of $ 46.3 million from the sale of the company 's interest in National Car Rental Systems Inc . 
Revenue was $ 444.9 million , including net interest , down slightly from $ 450.7 million . 
In Big Board composite trading yesterday , PaineWebber closed at $ 18.50 , up 75 cents . 
Seafirst Corp. said it signed an agreement with builder Martin Selig to purchase its headquarters building , the Columbia Seafirst Center , for $ 354 million . 
Purchase of the 76-story structure is subject to execution of a definitive agreement , approval by the boards of Seafirst and its parent company BankAmerica Corp. , and approval by regulators . 
The market upheaval apparently has n't triggered any cash crunch -- yet . 
Individual investors , investment firms and arbitragers who speculate in the stocks of takeover candidates can suffer liquidity and payment problems when stocks dive ; those investors often borrow heavily to buy their holdings and use the stocks as collateral for loans . 
But several large banks said yesterday they detected no signs of unusual demand for credit that would signal such difficulties . 
`` We 're seeing nothing out of the ordinary , '' said one official at a Top 10 bank . 
`` That 's good news , because we all swim in this water . '' 
Added another executive at a big bank : `` We were all a little goosey over the weekend trying to forecast what would happen { Monday } , but it 's been very quiet . 
Now , as for tomorrow , hell , who knows ? 
What happened Friday shows that financial markets are not yet sufficiently coordinated to handle another meltdown in prices . 
No fiddling with systems and procedures will ever prevent markets from suffering a panic wave of selling . 
But markets can operate with greater or lesser efficiency . 
After the 1987 plunge , markets agreed that it would be wise to halt trading whenever panic conditions arose . 
The New York Stock Exchange adopted two specific circuit breakers : If the Dow Jones index falls 250 points in a day , the exchange will halt trading for one hour ; if the decline hits 400 points , the exchange will close for an additional two hours . 
The rationale is that an interruption of trading will allow investors to reconsider their strategies , calm sellers and lead buyers to enter the market at indicated new price levels . 
It is impossible to know whether that theory is realistic . 
A temporary cessation of trading may indeed discourage a selling panic from feeding on itself . 
But there is also the possibility that shutting down markets will intensify fears and cause an even more abrupt slide in prices . 
What happened Friday was the worst of all worlds . 
The futures exchanges followed their own pre-set circuit breakers and shut down at about 3 p.m. for 30 minutes , after the Standard & Poor 's 500 stock index had fallen 12 points , or about 100 points on the Dow Jones index . 
Options markets stopped trading in many securities . 
The New York Stock Exchange , under its own rules , remained open . 
With nowhere else to go , sellers , and particularly program traders , focused all their selling on the New York Stock Exchange . 
As liquidity on that market weakened , prices fell sharply . 
Had the futures and options markets been open , additional liquidity would have been provided and the decline , most probably , would have been less intense . 
At 3:30 , after intense telephone negotiations between the trading markets and Washington , the futures exchanges reopened . 
Futures trading , however , was halted altogether at 3:45 , after the futures markets had dropped an additional 30 points , which is the daily limit for price declines . 
At this point , the options markets also shut down and once more left all sales to be handled by the New York Stock Exchange . 
It is time to recognize that the New York Stock Exchange , the futures markets and the options markets , though physically separate , have actually become so closely intertwined as to constitute one market effectively . 
Traders can vary their strategies and execute their orders in any one of them . 
It therefore makes no sense for each market to adopt different circuit breakers . 
To achieve maximum liquidity and minimize price volatility , either all markets should be open to trading or none . 
Synchronized circuit breakers would not have halted the slide in prices on Friday , but they probably would have made for smoother , less volatile executions . 
It 's time for the exchanges and the Securities and Exchange Commission to agree on joint conditions for halting trading or staying open . 
Let 's not have one market shut down for 30 minutes when the Dow declines 100 points and another shut down for an hour after a 250-point decline . 
The need for hurried last-minute telephone negotiations among market officials will disappear once rules are in place that synchronize circuit breakers in all markets . 
The new circuit breakers , if they are to be applied at all , will require that futures and options trading continue as long as the New York Stock Exchange remains open . 
The rules should be established by agreement of the officials of all affected exchanges acting under the oversight and with the approval of the government regulatory agencies . 
Should the SEC and the Commodities Futures Trading Commission ( which , with the SEC , regulates the Chicago stock-index markets ) be unable to agree , the issue may have to be resolved by decision of the Treasury secretary . 
In many ways , our financial markets are better prepared today to handle a decline than they were two years ago . 
The New York Stock Exchange now has the capacity to handle a volume of nearly a billion shares a day . 
Telephone service has been improved for customers trying to reach their brokers , and specialists -- who I believe should stay , despite the urgings of some post-crash critics -- have larger capital positions . 
( Of course , specialists ' actions alone can never prevent a major crack in stock prices . 
Witness the fact that trading in some stocks closed early Friday and opened late Monday because of an excess of sell orders . ) 
But the task of improving market performance remains unfinished . 
Mr. Freund , former chief economist of the New York Stock Exchange , is a professor of economics at Pace University 's business school in New York . 
A UNIFIED EUROPE poses labor problems and prospects for U.S. firms . 
The `` social dimension '' -- worker concerns -- of the European Community 's plan to open its internal borders in 1992 could set the effort `` off the rails '' if not done reasonably , says General Electric senior vice president Frank Doyle . 
U.S. companies wanting to expand in Europe face `` tough pressure '' from unions in nations such as West Germany , which play a big consulting role in management decisions , he says . 
FMC Corp. and Baxter International say unions also wo n't like plant relocations and needed restructuring , which means layoffs . 
Many employers have already begun moving to southern countries such as Spain and Italy , where wages are low and unions are weaker ; demand for trained labor and managers will rise there , FMC says . 
Pfizer , Fluor and GE see big `` EC 92 '' pluses : a push for job training and ease in moving and finding workers . 
CLUBBING A FAN was n't the Baltimore Orioles ' fault . 
So said a federal judge , in a case involving two players for the minor league Bluefield , Va. , Orioles , a Baltimore farm team . 
The players were heckled by a patron during a July 4 , 1988 , game with the Martinsville Phillies . 
Like its parent that year , `` Bluefield was not having a good year , '' the judge said . 
After the game ( `` Bluefield lost , 9-8 , stranding three runners in ... the ninth , '' he noted ) , trouble began . 
More taunting in the parking lot , the players said , led to a fight . 
The fan said he was punched and kicked by one player and that the other broke his jaw with a baseball bat . 
The judge dismissed the fan 's suit against the team , however , ruling the Orioles innocent of negligent hiring , and not responsible for a fight that was outside the players ' employment . 
PROPOSALS ARISE for coping with the shortage of nurses . 
An Association of Academic Health Centers report urges freeing nurses from duties that do n't require special skills . 
It also recommends better retirement and day-care benefits , and basing pay on education , experience and nurses ' demanding work schedules . 
But it opposes an American Medical Association proposal for creating a `` registered care technologist , '' as `` potentially divisive '' ; it says the job would entail an unwanted new doctor 's `` bedside '' extension . 
Over a third of 618 hospitals surveyed by consultant Hewitt Associates use a `` clinical ladder , '' basing advancement on performance and education . 
Many also use recruiting bonuses , tuition reimbursement , loan repayment or child-care help . 
Some give lump-sum incentives . 
MRA Staffing Systems signs up nurses for paid travel , promising annual income up to $ 50,000 and free or subsidized housing . 
TREATING EMPLOYEES with respect is crucial for managers , says consultant Hay Group after surveys of a million workers . 
It 's in their top five `` work values . '' 
Fully 80 % of employees who say their bosses treat them with respect , but only a third of those who do n't feel respected say they 're satisfied with where they work . 
SPRUCING UP THE DIGS : About 200 employees of the Maryland Department of Economic and Employment Development for four months painted walls , polished and carpeted floors , bought plants , cleaned windows and blinds , and hung pictures at the agency 's Baltimore office . 
The 3,000 hours of work will save the state $ 55,000 . 
