In an Oct. 19 review of `` The Misanthrope '' at Chicago 's Goodman Theatre ( `` Revitalized Classics Take the Stage in Windy City , '' Leisure & Arts ) , the role of Celimene , played by Kim Cattrall , was mistakenly attributed to Christina Haag . 
Ms. Haag plays Elianti . 
Rolls-Royce Motor Cars Inc. said it expects its U.S. sales to remain steady at about 1,200 cars in 1990 . 
The luxury auto maker last year sold 1,214 cars in the U.S. 
Howard Mosher , president and chief executive officer , said he anticipates growth for the luxury auto maker in Britain and Europe , and in Far Eastern markets . 
BELL INDUSTRIES Inc. increased its quarterly to 10 cents from seven cents a share . 
The new rate will be payable Feb. 15 . 
A record date has n't been set . 
Bell , based in Los Angeles , makes and distributes electronic , computer and building products . 
Investors are appealing to the Securities and Exchange Commission not to limit their access to information about stock purchases and sales by corporate insiders . 
A SEC proposal to ease reporting requirements for some company executives would undermine the usefulness of information on insider trades as a stock-picking tool , individual investors and professional money managers contend . 
They make the argument in letters to the agency about rule changes proposed this past summer that , among other things , would exempt many middle-management executives from reporting trades in their own companies ' shares . 
The proposed changes also would allow executives to report exercises of options later and less often . 
Many of the letters maintain that investor confidence has been so shaken by the 1987 stock market crash -- and the markets already so stacked against the little guy -- that any decrease in information on insider-trading patterns might prompt individuals to get out of stocks altogether . 
`` The SEC has historically paid obeisance to the ideal of a level playing field , '' wrote Clyde S. McGregor of Winnetka , Ill. , in one of the 92 letters the agency has received since the changes were proposed Aug. 17 . 
`` Apparently the commission did not really believe in this ideal . '' 
Currently , the rules force executives , directors and other corporate insiders to report purchases and sales of their companies ' shares within about a month after the transaction . 
But about 25 % of the insiders , according to SEC figures , file their reports late . 
The changes were proposed in an effort to streamline federal bureaucracy and boost compliance by the executives `` who are really calling the shots , '' said Brian Lane , special counsel at the SEC 's office of disclosure policy , which proposed the changes . 
Investors , money managers and corporate officials had until today to comment on the proposals , and the issue has produced more mail than almost any other issue in memory , Mr. Lane said . 
The SEC will probably vote on the proposal early next year , he said . 
Not all those who wrote oppose the changes . 
The Committee on Federal Regulation of Securities for the American Bar Association argues , for example , in its lengthy letter to the SEC , that the proposed changes `` would substantially improve the { law } by conforming it more closely to contemporary business realities . '' 
What the investors who oppose the proposed changes object to most is the effect they say the proposal would have on their ability to spot telltale `` clusters '' of trading activity -- buying or selling by more than one officer or director within a short period of time . 
According to some estimates , the rule changes would cut insider filings by more than a third . 
The SEC 's Mr. Lane vehemently disputed those estimates . 
The rules will eliminate filings policy-making divisions , such as sales , marketing , finance and research and development , Mr. Lane said . 
The proposed rules also would be tougher on the insiders still required to file reports , he said . 
Companies would be compelled to publish in annual proxy statements the names of insiders who fail to file reports on time . 
Considered as a whole , Mr. Lane said , the filings required under the proposed rules `` will be at least as effective , if not more so , for investors following transactions . '' 
But Robert Gabele , president of Invest\/Net , a North Miami , Fla. , company that packages and sells the insider-trading data , said the proposal is worded so vaguely that key officials may fail to file the reports . 
Many investors wrote asking the SEC to require insiders to report their purchases and sales immediately , not a month later . 
But Mr. Lane said that while the SEC regulates who files , the law tells them when to do so . 
Investors who want to change the required timing should write their representatives in Congress , he added . 
The SEC would likely be amenable to legislation that required insiders to file transactions on a more timely basis , he said . 
The nation 's largest pension fund , which oversees $ 80 billion for college employees , plans to offer two new investment options to its 1.2 million participants . 
The Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association-College Retirement Equities Fund said it will introduce a stock and bond fund that will invest in `` socially responsible '' companies , and a bond fund . 
Both funds are expected to begin operation around March 1 , subject to Securities and Exchange Commission approval . 
For its employees to sign up for the options , a college also must approve the plan . 
Some 4,300 institutions are part of the pension fund . 
The new options carry out part of an agreement that the pension fund , under pressure to relax its strict participation rules and to provide more investment options , reached with the SEC in December . 
The new `` social choice '' fund will shun securities of companies linked to South Africa , nuclear power and in some cases , Northern Ireland . 
Also excluded will be investments in companies with `` significant '' business stemming from weapons manufacture , alcoholic beverages or tobacco . 
Sixty percent of the fund will be invested in stocks , with the rest going into bonds or short-term investments . 
The bond fund will invest in high-grade or medium-grade bonds , mortgages or asset-backed securities , including as much as 15 % in foreign securities . 
The fund also might buy and sell futures and options contracts , subject to approval by the New York State Insurance Department . 
Under two new features , participants will be able to transfer money from the new funds to other investment funds or , if their jobs are terminated , receive cash from the funds . 
The investment choices offered by the pension fund currently are limited to a stock fund , an annuity and a money-market fund . 
New Brunswick Scientific Co. , a maker of biotechnology instrumentation and equipment , said it adopted an anti-takeover plan giving shareholders the right to purchase shares at half price under certain conditions . 
The company said the plan , under review for some time , will protect shareholders against `` abusive takeover tactics . 
W. Ed Tyler , 37 years old , a senior vice president at this printing concern , was elected president of its technology group , a new position . 
Solo woodwind players have to be creative if they want to work a lot , because their repertoire and audience appeal are limited . 
The oboist Heinz Holliger has taken a hard line about the problem : He commissions and splendidly interprets fearsome contemporary scores and does some conducting , so he does n't have to play the same Mozart and Strauss concertos over and over again . 
Richard Stoltzman has taken a gentler , more audience-friendly approach . 
Years ago , he collaborated with the new music gurus Peter Serkin and Fred Sherry in the very countercultural chamber group Tashi , which won audiences over to dreaded contemporary scores like Messiaen 's `` Quartet for the End of Time . '' 
Today , the pixie-like clarinetist has mostly dropped the missionary work ( though a touch of the old Tashi still survives ) and now goes on the road with piano , bass , a slide show , and a repertoire that ranges from light classical to light jazz to light pop , with a few notable exceptions . 
Just the thing for the Vivaldi-at-brunch set , the yuppie audience that has embraced New Age as its very own easy listening . 
But you ca n't dismiss Mr. Stoltzman 's music or his motives as merely commercial and lightweight . 
He believes in what he plays , and he plays superbly . 
His recent appearance at the Metropolitan Museum , dubbed `` A Musical Odyssey , '' was a case in point . 
It felt more like a party , or a highly polished jam session with a few friends , than a classical concert . 
Clad in his trademark black velvet suit , the soft-spoken clarinetist announced that his new album , `` Inner Voices , '' had just been released , that his family was in the front row , and that it was his mother 's birthday , so he was going to play her favorite tune from the record . 
He launched into Saint-Saens 's `` The Swan '' from `` Carnival of the Animals , '' a favorite encore piece for cellists , with lovely , glossy tone and no bite . 
Then , as if to show that he could play fast as well , he offered the second movement from Saint-Saens 's Sonata for Clarinet , a whimsical , puckish tidbit that reflected the flip side of the Stoltzman personality . 
And so it went through the first half : an ingeniously chosen potpourri of pieces , none longer than five minutes , none that would disturb or challenge a listener . 
Mr. Stoltzman introduced his colleagues : Bill Douglas , pianist\/bassoonist\/composer and an old buddy from Yale , and jazz bassist Eddie Gomez . 
An improvisational section was built around pieces by Mr. Douglas , beginning with `` Golden Rain , '' a lilting , laid-back lead in to the uptempo `` Sky , '' which gave Mr. Stoltzman the opportunity to wail in a high register and show off his fleet fingers . 
Bach 's `` Air '' followed . 
Mr. Stoltzman tied the composer in by proclaiming him `` the great improviser of the 18th century , '' and then built on the image by joining with Mr. Douglas in some Bach two-part inventions , cleverly arranged for clarinet and bassoon by Mr. Douglas . 
Keeping the mood light , the two then chanted and chortled their way through some murderous polyrhythms , devised by Mr. Douglas as an alternative to Hindemith 's dry theory-teaching techniques , and then , with Mr. Gomez , soared and improvised on the composer 's tight `` Bebop Etudes . '' 
The end of the first half , however , brought what the standing-room-only crowd seemed to be waiting for : the pop singer Judy Collins , who appears on `` Inner Voices . '' 
Glamorous and pure-voiced as ever , Ms. Collins sang Joni Mitchell 's `` For Free '' -- about an encounter with a street-corner clarinetist , to which Mr. Stoltzman contributed a clarinet obligatto -- and Mr. Douglas 's lush setting of a Gaelic blessing , `` Deep Peace . '' 
`` Deep Peace '' also featured a slide show of lovely but predictable images of clouds , beaches , deserts , sunsets , etc . 
It was all too mellow to be believed , but they probably would have gotten away with it , had they not felt compelled to add Ms. Collins 's signature tune , `` Amazing Grace , '' and ask for audience participation . 
That went over the permissible line for warm and fuzzy feelings . 
Was this why some of the audience departed before or during the second half ? 
Or was it because Ms. Collins had gone ? 
Either way it was a pity , because Mr. Stolzman offered the most substantial music of the evening just after intermission : Steve Reich 's `` New York Counterpoint , '' one of a series of Reich works that juxtapose a live performer with recorded tracks of his or her own playing . 
( Mr. Reich 's new `` Different Trains '' for string quartet uses the technique magisterially . ) 
Mr. Stoltzman must have worried that his audience might not be able to take it : He warned us in advance that `` New York Counterpoint '' lasts 11 1\/2 minutes . 
He also unfortunately illustrated this intricate , jazzy tapestry with Mr. Pearson 's images , this time of geometric or repeating objects , in a kitschy mirroring of the musical structure that was thoroughly distracting from Mr. Reich 's piece and Mr. Stoltzman 's elegant execution of it . 
The rest of the concert was more straight jazz and mellow sounds written by Charlie Parker , Ornette Coleman , Bill Douglas and Eddie Gomez , with pictures for the Douglas pieces . 
It was enjoyable to hear accomplished jazz without having to sit in a smoke-filled club , but like the first half , much of it was easy to take and ultimately forgettable . 
Is this the future of chamber music ? 
Managers and presenters insist that chamber music concerts are a hard sell , but can audiences really enjoy them only if the music is purged of threatening elements , served up in bite-sized morsels and accompanied by visuals ? 
What 's next ? 
Slides to illustrate Shostakovich quartets ? 
It was not an unpleasant evening , certainly , thanks to the high level of performance , the compositional talents of Mr. Douglas , and the obvious sincerity with which Mr. Stoltzman chooses his selections . 
But it was neither deep nor lasting : light entertainment that was no substitute for an evening of Brahms . 
Ms. Waleson is a free-lance writer based in New York . 
One of Ronald Reagan 's attributes as President was that he rarely gave his blessing to the claptrap that passes for `` consensus '' in various international institutions . 
In fact , he liberated the U.S. from one of the world 's most corrupt organizations -- UNESCO . 
This is the U.N. group that managed to traduce its own charter of promoting education , science and culture . 
Ever since , the remaining members have been desperate for the United States to rejoin this dreadful group . 
Now UNESCO apologists are lobbying President Bush to renege on President Reagan 's decision to depart . 
But we can think of many reasons to stay out for the foreseeable future and well beyond . 
The U.S. , along with Britain and Singapore , left the agency when its anti-Western ideology , financial corruption and top leadership got out of hand . 
The personal antics of agency Director Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow drew much attention , such as when several of his top aides were uncovered as KGB plants and ejected from France and when a mysterious office fire was set just before Congress sent accountants to trace U.S. funds . 
Mr. M'Bow was an extreme case , but even his replacement , the more personally genial Spanish biochemist Federico Mayor , has had little success at achieving reforms . 
Several ridiculous projects continue , including the `` New International Economic Order , '' which means redistributionism from the West to pay for everyone else 's statism . 
