In an Oct. 19 review of `` The Misanthrope '' at Chicago 's Goodman Theatre ( `` Revitalized Classics Take the Stage in Windy City , '' Leisure & Arts ) , the role of Celimene , played by Kim Cattrall , was mistakenly attributed to Christina Haag . 
Ms. Haag plays Elianti . 
Rolls-Royce Motor Cars Inc. said it expects its U.S. sales to remain steady at about 1,200 cars in 1990 . 
The luxury auto maker last year sold 1,214 cars in the U.S. 
Howard Mosher , president and chief executive officer , said he anticipates growth for the luxury auto maker in Britain and Europe , and in Far Eastern markets . 
BELL INDUSTRIES Inc. increased its quarterly to 10 cents from seven cents a share . 
The new rate will be payable Feb. 15 . 
A record date has n't been set . 
Bell , based in Los Angeles , makes and distributes electronic , computer and building products . 
Investors are appealing to the Securities and Exchange Commission not to limit their access to information about stock purchases and sales by corporate insiders . 
A SEC proposal to ease reporting requirements for some company executives would undermine the usefulness of information on insider trades as a stock-picking tool , individual investors and professional money managers contend . 
They make the argument in letters to the agency about rule changes proposed this past summer that , among other things , would exempt many middle-management executives from reporting trades in their own companies ' shares . 
The proposed changes also would allow executives to report exercises of options later and less often . 
Many of the letters maintain that investor confidence has been so shaken by the 1987 stock market crash -- and the markets already so stacked against the little guy -- that any decrease in information on insider-trading patterns might prompt individuals to get out of stocks altogether . 
`` The SEC has historically paid obeisance to the ideal of a level playing field , '' wrote Clyde S. McGregor of Winnetka , Ill. , in one of the 92 letters the agency has received since the changes were proposed Aug. 17 . 
`` Apparently the commission did not really believe in this ideal . '' 
Currently , the rules force executives , directors and other corporate insiders to report purchases and sales of their companies ' shares within about a month after the transaction . 
But about 25 % of the insiders , according to SEC figures , file their reports late . 
The changes were proposed in an effort to streamline federal bureaucracy and boost compliance by the executives `` who are really calling the shots , '' said Brian Lane , special counsel at the SEC 's office of disclosure policy , which proposed the changes . 
Investors , money managers and corporate officials had until today to comment on the proposals , and the issue has produced more mail than almost any other issue in memory , Mr. Lane said . 
The SEC will probably vote on the proposal early next year , he said . 
Not all those who wrote oppose the changes . 
The Committee on Federal Regulation of Securities for the American Bar Association argues , for example , in its lengthy letter to the SEC , that the proposed changes `` would substantially improve the { law } by conforming it more closely to contemporary business realities . '' 
What the investors who oppose the proposed changes object to most is the effect they say the proposal would have on their ability to spot telltale `` clusters '' of trading activity -- buying or selling by more than one officer or director within a short period of time . 
According to some estimates , the rule changes would cut insider filings by more than a third . 
The SEC 's Mr. Lane vehemently disputed those estimates . 
The rules will eliminate filings policy-making divisions , such as sales , marketing , finance and research and development , Mr. Lane said . 
The proposed rules also would be tougher on the insiders still required to file reports , he said . 
Companies would be compelled to publish in annual proxy statements the names of insiders who fail to file reports on time . 
Considered as a whole , Mr. Lane said , the filings required under the proposed rules `` will be at least as effective , if not more so , for investors following transactions . '' 
But Robert Gabele , president of Invest\/Net , a North Miami , Fla. , company that packages and sells the insider-trading data , said the proposal is worded so vaguely that key officials may fail to file the reports . 
Many investors wrote asking the SEC to require insiders to report their purchases and sales immediately , not a month later . 
But Mr. Lane said that while the SEC regulates who files , the law tells them when to do so . 
Investors who want to change the required timing should write their representatives in Congress , he added . 
The SEC would likely be amenable to legislation that required insiders to file transactions on a more timely basis , he said . 
The nation 's largest pension fund , which oversees $ 80 billion for college employees , plans to offer two new investment options to its 1.2 million participants . 
The Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association-College Retirement Equities Fund said it will introduce a stock and bond fund that will invest in `` socially responsible '' companies , and a bond fund . 
Both funds are expected to begin operation around March 1 , subject to Securities and Exchange Commission approval . 
For its employees to sign up for the options , a college also must approve the plan . 
Some 4,300 institutions are part of the pension fund . 
The new options carry out part of an agreement that the pension fund , under pressure to relax its strict participation rules and to provide more investment options , reached with the SEC in December . 
The new `` social choice '' fund will shun securities of companies linked to South Africa , nuclear power and in some cases , Northern Ireland . 
Also excluded will be investments in companies with `` significant '' business stemming from weapons manufacture , alcoholic beverages or tobacco . 
Sixty percent of the fund will be invested in stocks , with the rest going into bonds or short-term investments . 
The bond fund will invest in high-grade or medium-grade bonds , mortgages or asset-backed securities , including as much as 15 % in foreign securities . 
The fund also might buy and sell futures and options contracts , subject to approval by the New York State Insurance Department . 
Under two new features , participants will be able to transfer money from the new funds to other investment funds or , if their jobs are terminated , receive cash from the funds . 
The investment choices offered by the pension fund currently are limited to a stock fund , an annuity and a money-market fund . 
New Brunswick Scientific Co. , a maker of biotechnology instrumentation and equipment , said it adopted an anti-takeover plan giving shareholders the right to purchase shares at half price under certain conditions . 
The company said the plan , under review for some time , will protect shareholders against `` abusive takeover tactics . 
W. Ed Tyler , 37 years old , a senior vice president at this printing concern , was elected president of its technology group , a new position . 
Solo woodwind players have to be creative if they want to work a lot , because their repertoire and audience appeal are limited . 
The oboist Heinz Holliger has taken a hard line about the problem : He commissions and splendidly interprets fearsome contemporary scores and does some conducting , so he does n't have to play the same Mozart and Strauss concertos over and over again . 
Richard Stoltzman has taken a gentler , more audience-friendly approach . 
Years ago , he collaborated with the new music gurus Peter Serkin and Fred Sherry in the very countercultural chamber group Tashi , which won audiences over to dreaded contemporary scores like Messiaen 's `` Quartet for the End of Time . '' 
Today , the pixie-like clarinetist has mostly dropped the missionary work ( though a touch of the old Tashi still survives ) and now goes on the road with piano , bass , a slide show , and a repertoire that ranges from light classical to light jazz to light pop , with a few notable exceptions . 
Just the thing for the Vivaldi-at-brunch set , the yuppie audience that has embraced New Age as its very own easy listening . 
But you ca n't dismiss Mr. Stoltzman 's music or his motives as merely commercial and lightweight . 
He believes in what he plays , and he plays superbly . 
His recent appearance at the Metropolitan Museum , dubbed `` A Musical Odyssey , '' was a case in point . 
It felt more like a party , or a highly polished jam session with a few friends , than a classical concert . 
Clad in his trademark black velvet suit , the soft-spoken clarinetist announced that his new album , `` Inner Voices , '' had just been released , that his family was in the front row , and that it was his mother 's birthday , so he was going to play her favorite tune from the record . 
He launched into Saint-Saens 's `` The Swan '' from `` Carnival of the Animals , '' a favorite encore piece for cellists , with lovely , glossy tone and no bite . 
Then , as if to show that he could play fast as well , he offered the second movement from Saint-Saens 's Sonata for Clarinet , a whimsical , puckish tidbit that reflected the flip side of the Stoltzman personality . 
And so it went through the first half : an ingeniously chosen potpourri of pieces , none longer than five minutes , none that would disturb or challenge a listener . 
Mr. Stoltzman introduced his colleagues : Bill Douglas , pianist\/bassoonist\/composer and an old buddy from Yale , and jazz bassist Eddie Gomez . 
An improvisational section was built around pieces by Mr. Douglas , beginning with `` Golden Rain , '' a lilting , laid-back lead in to the uptempo `` Sky , '' which gave Mr. Stoltzman the opportunity to wail in a high register and show off his fleet fingers . 
Bach 's `` Air '' followed . 
Mr. Stoltzman tied the composer in by proclaiming him `` the great improviser of the 18th century , '' and then built on the image by joining with Mr. Douglas in some Bach two-part inventions , cleverly arranged for clarinet and bassoon by Mr. Douglas . 
Keeping the mood light , the two then chanted and chortled their way through some murderous polyrhythms , devised by Mr. Douglas as an alternative to Hindemith 's dry theory-teaching techniques , and then , with Mr. Gomez , soared and improvised on the composer 's tight `` Bebop Etudes . '' 
The end of the first half , however , brought what the standing-room-only crowd seemed to be waiting for : the pop singer Judy Collins , who appears on `` Inner Voices . '' 
Glamorous and pure-voiced as ever , Ms. Collins sang Joni Mitchell 's `` For Free '' -- about an encounter with a street-corner clarinetist , to which Mr. Stoltzman contributed a clarinet obligatto -- and Mr. Douglas 's lush setting of a Gaelic blessing , `` Deep Peace . '' 
`` Deep Peace '' also featured a slide show of lovely but predictable images of clouds , beaches , deserts , sunsets , etc . 
It was all too mellow to be believed , but they probably would have gotten away with it , had they not felt compelled to add Ms. Collins 's signature tune , `` Amazing Grace , '' and ask for audience participation . 
That went over the permissible line for warm and fuzzy feelings . 
Was this why some of the audience departed before or during the second half ? 
Or was it because Ms. Collins had gone ? 
Either way it was a pity , because Mr. Stolzman offered the most substantial music of the evening just after intermission : Steve Reich 's `` New York Counterpoint , '' one of a series of Reich works that juxtapose a live performer with recorded tracks of his or her own playing . 
( Mr. Reich 's new `` Different Trains '' for string quartet uses the technique magisterially . ) 
Mr. Stoltzman must have worried that his audience might not be able to take it : He warned us in advance that `` New York Counterpoint '' lasts 11 1\/2 minutes . 
He also unfortunately illustrated this intricate , jazzy tapestry with Mr. Pearson 's images , this time of geometric or repeating objects , in a kitschy mirroring of the musical structure that was thoroughly distracting from Mr. Reich 's piece and Mr. Stoltzman 's elegant execution of it . 
The rest of the concert was more straight jazz and mellow sounds written by Charlie Parker , Ornette Coleman , Bill Douglas and Eddie Gomez , with pictures for the Douglas pieces . 
It was enjoyable to hear accomplished jazz without having to sit in a smoke-filled club , but like the first half , much of it was easy to take and ultimately forgettable . 
Is this the future of chamber music ? 
Managers and presenters insist that chamber music concerts are a hard sell , but can audiences really enjoy them only if the music is purged of threatening elements , served up in bite-sized morsels and accompanied by visuals ? 
What 's next ? 
Slides to illustrate Shostakovich quartets ? 
It was not an unpleasant evening , certainly , thanks to the high level of performance , the compositional talents of Mr. Douglas , and the obvious sincerity with which Mr. Stoltzman chooses his selections . 
But it was neither deep nor lasting : light entertainment that was no substitute for an evening of Brahms . 
Ms. Waleson is a free-lance writer based in New York . 
One of Ronald Reagan 's attributes as President was that he rarely gave his blessing to the claptrap that passes for `` consensus '' in various international institutions . 
In fact , he liberated the U.S. from one of the world 's most corrupt organizations -- UNESCO . 
This is the U.N. group that managed to traduce its own charter of promoting education , science and culture . 
Ever since , the remaining members have been desperate for the United States to rejoin this dreadful group . 
Now UNESCO apologists are lobbying President Bush to renege on President Reagan 's decision to depart . 
But we can think of many reasons to stay out for the foreseeable future and well beyond . 
The U.S. , along with Britain and Singapore , left the agency when its anti-Western ideology , financial corruption and top leadership got out of hand . 
The personal antics of agency Director Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow drew much attention , such as when several of his top aides were uncovered as KGB plants and ejected from France and when a mysterious office fire was set just before Congress sent accountants to trace U.S. funds . 
Mr. M'Bow was an extreme case , but even his replacement , the more personally genial Spanish biochemist Federico Mayor , has had little success at achieving reforms . 
Several ridiculous projects continue , including the `` New International Economic Order , '' which means redistributionism from the West to pay for everyone else 's statism . 
The Orwellian `` New World Information Order '' would give government officials rights against the press ; journalists would be obliged to kowtow to their government , which would have licensing and censorship powers and , indeed , duties to block printing of `` wrong '' ideas . 
UNESCO somehow converted the founding U.N. ideals of individual rights and liberty into `` peoples ' rights . '' 
Million-dollar conferences were held to chew on subjects such as `` ethical responsibilities of scientists in support of disarmament '' and `` the impact of the activities of transnational corporations . '' 
The agency was so totally subverted from the high principles of its founding that even the Soviets now wonder about an agency that seemed so congenial to them . 
Glasnost may be partly responsible , but Soviet Foreign Minister Eduard Shevardnadze last year admitted , `` The exaggerated ideological approach undermined tolerance intrinsic to UNESCO . '' 
UNESCO is now holding its biennial meetings in Paris to devise its next projects . 
Mr. Mayor 's hope that references to `` press freedom '' would survive unamended seems doomed to failure ; the current phrasing is `` educating the public and media to avoid manipulation . '' 
He has n't been able to replace the M'Bow cabal . 
Soviets remain in charge of education programs , a former head of an African military tribunal for executions is in charge of culture , and a hard-line Polish communist in exile directs the human-rights and peace division . 
Of the agency 's 2,750 staff members , 230 are in the field working on actual projects , such as literacy and oceanographic research . 
The position of the United States , which once contributed 25 % of the budget , is that nothing has changed . 
John Bolton , the assistant secretary of state for international organizations , told Congress that the continuing `` statist , restrictive , nondemocratic '' programs make rejoining any time soon `` extremely unlikely . '' 
This has n't much bothered the UNESCO delegates , who last week could n't even agree to raise funds by selling off a fancy 19th-century French chateau the agency somehow owns . 
Other countries , including West Germany , may have a hard time justifying continued membership . 
We see an even stronger argument against UNESCO than its unsurprising failure to reform . 
This is that the Reagan Revolution spanning Eastern Europe and Tiananmen Square shows the power of ideas unencumbered by international civil servants or government functionaries . 
Free markets , free minds and free elections have an appeal that seems to get muddled only when delivered through U.N. organizations -- which of course are made up largely of governments that fear these principles at home . 
The Babelists of the United Nations are experts at obfuscation . 
This can have its purposes at times , but there 's no reason to cloud the importance and allure of Western concepts of freedom and justice . 
We can see plenty of reasons to stay out , and none to rejoin UNESCO . 
Researchers at Plant Genetic Systems N.V. in Belgium said they have developed a genetic engineering technique for creating hybrid plants for a number of key crops . 
The researchers said they have isolated a plant gene that prevents the production of pollen . 
The gene thus can prevent a plant from fertilizing itself . 
Such so-called male-sterile plants can then be fertilized by pollen from another strain of the plant , thereby producing hybrid seed . 
The new generation of plants will possess the flourishing , high-production trait known as `` hybrid vigor , '' similar to that now seen in hybrid corn . 
`` The development could have a dramatic effect on farm production , especially cotton , '' said Murray Robinson , president of Delta & Pine Land Co. , a Southwide Inc. subsidiary that is one of the largest cotton seed producers in the U.S. . 
On a commercial scale , the sterilization of the pollen-producing male part has only been achieved in corn and sorghum feed grains . 
That 's because the male part , the tassel , and the female , the ear , are some distance apart on the corn plant . 
In a labor-intensive process , the seed companies cut off the tassels of each plant , making it male sterile . 
They sow a row of male-fertile plants nearby , which then pollinate the male-sterile plants . 
The first hybrid corn seeds produced using this mechanical approach were introduced in the 1930s and they yielded as much as 20 % more corn than naturally pollinated plants . 
The vast majority of the U.S. corn crop now is grown from hybrid seeds produced by seed companies . 
A similar technique is almost impossible to apply to other crops , such as cotton , soybeans and rice . 
The male part , the anthers of the plant , and the female , the pistils , of the same plant are within a fraction of an inch or even attached to each other . 
The anthers in these plants are difficult to clip off . 
In China , a great number of workers are engaged in pulling out the male organs of rice plants using tweezers , and one-third of rice produced in that country is grown from hybrid seeds . 
At Plant Genetic Systems , researchers have isolated a pollen-inhibiting gene that can be inserted in a plant to confer male sterility . 
Jan Leemans , research director , said this gene was successfully introduced in oil-producing rapeseed plants , a major crop in Europe and Canada , using as a carrier a `` promoter gene '' developed by Robert Goldberg at the University of California in Los Angeles . 
The sterilizing gene is expressed just before the pollen is about to develop and it deactivates the anthers of every flower in the plant . 
Mr. Leemans said this genetic manipulation does n't hurt the growth of that plant . 
The researchers also pulled off a second genetic engineering trick in order to get male-sterile plants in large enough numbers to produce a commercial hybrid seed crop . 
They attached a second gene , for herbicide resistance , to the pollen-inhibiting gene . 
Both genes are then inserted into a few greenhouse plants , which are then pollinated and allowed to mature and produce seed . 
The laws of heredity dictate that half of the plants springing from these greenhouse-produced seeds will be male sterile and herbicide resistant and half will be male fertile and herbicide susceptible . 
The application of herbicide would kill off the male-fertile plants , leaving a large field of male-sterile plants that can be cross-pollinated to produce hybrid seed . 
Mr. Leemans said the hybrid rapeseeds created with this genetic engineering yield 15 % to 30 % more output than the commercial strains used currently . 
`` This technique is applicable to a wide variety of crops , '' he said , and added that some modifications may be necessary to accommodate the peculiarities of each type of crop . 
He said the company is experimenting with the technique on alfalfa , and plans to include cotton and corn , among other crops . 
He said that even though virtually all corn seeds currently planted are hybrids , the genetic approach will obviate the need for mechanical emasculation of anthers , which costs U.S. seed producers about $ 70 million annually . 
In recent years , demand for hybrid seeds has spurred research at a number of chemical and biotechnology companies , including Monsanto Co. , Shell Oil Co. and Eli Lilly & Co . 
One technique developed by some of these companies involves a chemical spray supposed to kill only a plant 's pollen . 
But there have been problems with chemical sprays damaging plants ' female reproductive organs and concern for the toxicity of such chemical sprays to humans , animals and beneficial insects . 
However , Paul Johanson , Monsanto 's director of plant sciences , said the company 's chemical spray overcomes these problems and is `` gentle on the female organ . '' 
Biosource Genetics Corp. , Vacaville , Calif. , is developing a spray containing a gene that spreads from cell to cell and interferes with the genes that are responsible for producing pollen . 
This gene , called `` gametocide , '' is carried into the plant by a virus that remains active for a few days . 
Robert Erwin , president of Biosource , called Plant Genetic 's approach `` interesting '' and `` novel , '' and `` complementary rather than competitive . '' 
`` There is a large market out there hungry for hybrid seeds , '' he said . 
Mr. Robinson of Delta & Pine , the seed producer in Scott , Miss. , said Plant Genetic 's success in creating genetically engineered male steriles does n't automatically mean it would be simple to create hybrids in all crops . 
That 's because pollination , while easy in corn because the carrier is wind , is more complex and involves insects as carriers in crops such as cotton . 
`` It 's one thing to say you can sterilize , and another to then successfully pollinate the plant , '' he said . 
Nevertheless , he said , he is negotiating with Plant Genetic to acquire the technology to try breeding hybrid cotton . 
A bitter conflict with global implications has erupted between Nomura Securities Co. and Industrial Bank of Japan , two of the world 's most powerful financial companies . 
The clash is a sign of a new toughness and divisiveness in Japan 's once-cozy financial circles . 
Not only are Japan 's financial institutions putting their enormous clout to work ; increasingly they 're squaring off against one another in unprecedented public fashion . 
Already , the consequences are being felt by other players in the financial markets -- even governments . 
What triggered the latest clash was a skirmish over the timing of a New Zealand government bond issue . 
Nomura was attempting to organize the 50 billion-yen ( $ 352 million ) borrowing in Japan at a time when many Japanese banks , led by Industrial Bank of Japan , were pressuring the Wellington government to help them recover loans made to a defunct investment bank that had been owned by New Zealand 's civil-service pension fund . 
Unwilling to put up new money for New Zealand until those debts are repaid , most banks refused even to play administrative roles in the new financing , forcing an embarrassed Nomura to postpone it this week . 
The dispute shows clearly the global power of Japan 's financial titans . 
Aside from Nomura 's injured pride , the biggest victim so far has been the New Zealand government . 
Barred by its budget law from making any new domestic bond issues , Wellington 's Debt Management Office had been casting abroad to raise the 3 billion New Zealand dollars ( US$ 1.76 billion ) to NZ$ 4 billion it needs to come up with by the end of its fiscal year next June 30 . 
With Japan 's cash-flush banks aligned against it , though , raising money may be difficult . 
Not only can they block Wellington from raising money in Japan , bankers here say , but as the largest underwriters in the Eurobond market , they might be able to scuttle borrowings there , too . 
New Zealand 's finance minister , David Caygill , lashed out at such suggestions . 
He told reporters in Wellington Tuesday that the government had n't guaranteed the loans to DFC New Zealand Ltd. , an investment bank 80%-owned by the National Provident Fund , and would n't bail it out . 
`` It may very well be what the Japanese banks want , '' he told Radio New Zealand . 
`` I think it would be irresponsible and I am not about to be blackmailed by Japanese banks or any other international interests . '' 
No less significant than the Japanese banks ' attempt to cut off funds to pressure a foreign government are the implications of a confrontation between Japan securities and banking industries . 
Anxiety is rising over recent government proposals to eventually lower the strict barriers that now separate -- and protect -- the two industries from each other . 
Both sides are jealously guarding their turf , and relations have been at a flashpoint for months . 
The banks badly want to break into all aspects of the securities business . 
Meanwhile , the securities companies -- most of them smaller than the banks -- are seeking access only to limited kinds of banking that would n't open them to the full brunt of competition from the banks . 
Nomura , the world 's biggest securities company largely by virtue of its protected home field , and Industrial Bank of Japan , Japan 's most innovative and aggressive bank in capital markets abroad , captain the opposing sides . 
And their suspicions of each other run deep . 
In the past year , both have tried to stretch the limits of their businesses . 
Nomura started a credit-card venture with American Express Co. that allowed cardholders to use their Nomura securities accounts like a bank account , attracting the wrath of banks . 
And Industrial Bank of Japan started up a London securities subsidiary that sells Japanese stocks to non-Japanese institutions overseas , a move that stirred the anger of the stock brokerage firms . 
The New Zealand bond issue simply has brought the two institutions face-to-face . 
ITEL CORP. reported third-quarter earnings , which were mistakenly shown in the Quarterly Earnings Surprises table in yesterday 's edition to be lower than the average of analysts ' estimates . 
On a pretax basis , Itel 's third-quarter earnings of 30 cents a share were actually 7.14 % higher than the average of estimates . 
Raymond E. Ross , 53 years old , formerly group vice president , U.S. plastics machinery , at this machine tool , plastics machinery and robots concern , was named senior vice president , industrial systems , succeeding David A. Entrekin , who resigned Monday . 
John A. Conlon Jr. , 45 , was named a managing director at this investment-banking company . 
He will be in charge of research , equity sales and trading , and the syndicate operation of Rothschild . 
Mr. Conlon was executive vice president and director of the equity division of the international division of Nikko Securities Co . 
As Yogi Berra might say , it 's deja vu all over again . 
Crouched at shortstop , Bert Campaneris , once Oakland 's master thief , effortlessly scoops up a groundball and flips it to second . 
In the outfield , Paul Blair , the Orioles ' eight-time Gold Glove winner , elegantly shags a fly . 
On the mound , former Red Sox great Luis Tiant , the wily master of 1,001 moves , throws an off-speed strike . 
`` Babies , kiddies , '' growls their manager -- a fellow named Earl Weaver , who , in a different time , handled four World Series teams and now handles the Gold Coast Suns . 
`` Old-time kiddies , '' he says . 
